Pound Sterling starts the new week slightly firmer against the Euro with 1 GBP buying 1.1585 EUR on the inter-bank market.
The Pound suffered five consecutive days of losses against the Euro last week, with the exchange rate falling over a percent and a half, confirming near-term momentum now appears to favour the Euro.
Losses came amidst growing expectations that cross-party Brexit talks in the UK were headed for failure while the Pound also found itself caught in the cross-fire of global trade tensions. 
International financial markets were rocked by news that President Donald Trump has increased tariffs from 10% to 25% on $200bn of Chinese goods imported into the U.S. each year, which helped drag the Pound-to-Euro rate below the key 1.16 level late last week.
The Euro performed better amid the market rout than its British counterpart, with some analysts saying the Euro is showing some 'safe haven' tendencies. "The Euro... is higher and may finally be benefiting from risk aversion - it's an increasingly popular funding currency," says Kit Juckes, a foreign exchange strategist with Société Générale.
Concerning the exchange rate's outlook for the coming week, the return back beneath the 1.1600 level means the outlook has gone from bullish to neutral from a technical perspective.
Although the pair broke convincingly above the 1.1600 range-high several months ago, it has since been unable to extend meaningfully above that point and has now marked out a new trading range spanning the March 13 high at 1.1802 and the March 21 low at 1.1466.Momentum, as measured by RSI, also looks like it may have formed a topping pattern of sorts (circled) a little like a head and shoulders pattern, although the downside potential from this is probably marginal given how shallow it is.
The two-bar reversal pattern on the weekly chart produced when a long green upweek is followed by a similarly length long red downweek, as happened last week, is a bearish trend reversal sign which suggests more downside to come as a new downtrend begins.
A break above 1.1802 would probably provide confirmation for the next leg higher, up to a target at 1.1900. This is just below where the 200-week moving average (MA) is likely to cap further gains, which could happen in the next 2-6 weeks.
Likewise a move back beneath the March 21 low would provide confirmation of a bearish break to the downside, which would then see the market target 1.1360 and the 200-day MA. This might also occur in the next 2-6 weeks.The main economic release out for the Pound this week is March jobs data. The UK labour market has been resilient in the face of political and economic uncertainty of late and if that idea is reinforced again this week then the Pound might benefit. 
A strong labour market can mean rising wages, increased inflation and higher interest rates further down the line, which could then lead to a stronger Pound because currencies tend to rise and fall with interest rates.
February’s figures were especially good after they showed the unemployment rate remaining at only 3.9% and some 179k new jobs being created. March is expected to have seen the unemployment rate remain steady.
Average earnings growth is expected to be a slightly lower than in February, coming in at 3.4% annualised, down from 3.5% previously
“The UK jobs market has been fairly resilient even though economic growth has slowed notably from the ongoing Brexit uncertainty,” says Raffi Boyadijian, economist at FX broker XM.com. “Wage growth in the UK is currently at a 10-year high, which is good news for consumers who have been the main drivers of the British economy amid weakening overseas demand and falling business investment from Brexit.”
Brexit continues to be a major risk factor for the Pound, which could see loses in the week ahead if tenuous cross-party talks breakdown.
A rise in support for Nigel Farage’s Brexit Party, which is leading in the polls with 34% of the electorate ahead of the May 23rd vote, may mean it's less likely Labour and the Conservatives will strike a deal as the pressure on the Conservatives to pursue a 'clean break' Brexit is growing.
In an intereview with the Guardian over the weekend, the leading Labour negotiator Sir Kier Starmer said it was increasingly likely that Labour would only back a deal that provided for a second  referendum on EU membership. Starmer said there was a huge segement of Labour parliamentarians that would only consider voting through a deal if a second vote was provided for, therefore he believes it would be futile to agree to any deal that does not provide for one.
The Conservatives would almost certaintly vote against any deal that does contain a provision for a second vote.
We expect the death of talks will be announced within days.The prospect of May departing and a general election occuring over coming months therefore remains high, creating the kind of uncertainty that would be expected to keep Sterling under pressure.The main driver of the Euro in the week ahead will probably be the escalating trade war between the U.S. and China.
The Euro was among the strongest risers against the Dollar towards the end of last week following news the White House had increased tariffs on some Chinese goods exports to the U.S. 
China has said it will retaliate against the U.S., but talks between the two countries are still ongoing so there remains some chance the whole situation can be brought back under control. 
On the economic data front, the only release likely to stir the market is the German ZEW economic sentiment index, which is a forward-looking indicator that measures sentiment among 350 German institutional investors.
The ZEW has shown some improvement over recent months and if it continues it could be seen as an early ‘green shoot’ for the economy, which may bode well in the future. The Eurozone has been showing possible signs of a gradual recovery recently and a strong ZEW would back this up.
Last month the index rose into positive territory, registering at 4.5, after a 10 month period in which the index remained below zero. If this month's number builds on that increase then  could lead to some upside for the Euro. The ZEW is scheduled for release at 10:00 London time on Tuesday.
Another key release for the Euro could be industrial production data which is forecast to show a decline of -0.3% month-on-month in March, when it is released at the same time as the ZEW. 
The second estimate of Q1 GDP is expected to show no change from the 0.4% gain recorded by the preliminary estimate, when it is released at 10.00 on Wednesday. Likewise the second estimate for inflation data in April is forecast to show little change from the initial stronger-than-expected estimate. 
EURO RATE TALKING POINTS
EUR/USD fails to break the monthly opening range despite the growing threat of a US-China trade war, and the exchange rate may continue to consolidate over the coming days as it carves a fresh series of lower highs & lows.
EURUSD CARVES BEARISH SERIES AMID FAILURE TO BREAK MAY OPENING RANGE
EUR/USD pares the advance from the monthly-low (1.1135) even though the shift in U.S. trade policy undermines the outlook for global growth, and the greenback may continue to appreciate over the coming days as Federal Reserve officials show little to no interest in adjusting the forward-guidance for monetary policy.
Recent remarks from Kansas City Fed President Esther George, a 2019-voting member on the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), suggest the central bank will stick to the sidelines as ‘thecurrent benign inflation outlook gives us the opportunity to test our assumptions about the degree of slack in the economy,’ and Chairman Jerome Powell & Co. may largely endorse a wait-and-see approach at the next interest rate decision on June 19 as the U.S. economy sits at full-employment.
It seems as though the FOMC will continue to tolerate below-target inflation as the central bank plans to wind down the $50B/month in quantitative tightening (QT) over the coming months, and the committee appears to be in no rush to alter the outlook for monetary policy especially as the Trump administration struggles to reach a trade deal with China. With that said, it remains to be seen if Fed officials will continue to project a longer-run interest rate of 2.50% to 2.75% as the central bank is slated to update the Summary of Economic Projections (SEP), and more of the same from Chairman Powell & Co. may ultimately heighten the appeal of the U.S. dollar as it undermines speculation for a change in regime.
Keep in mind, the broader outlook for EUR/USD remains tilted to the downside as both price and the Relative Strength Index (RSI) continue to track the bearish formations from earlier this year, with the near-term outlook mired by the failed attempt to break out of the monthly opening range.

Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.

	Share on LinkedIn (opens new window)
Save
Save to myFT
Rochelle Toplensky in Brussels, Stephen Morris and Eva Szalay in London MAY 16, 2019 Print this page76
Barclays, Citigroup, Royal Bank of Scotland, JPMorgan and Japan’s MUFG have been fined more than €1bn by the EU’s competition watchdog for rigging the multitrillion-dollar foreign exchange market after the last financial crash.

The conclusion of the five-year European investigation into benchmark currency rate manipulation is the latest in a scandal that shocked the banking industry when allegations first surfaced in 2013. Since then, more than a dozen financial institutions have paid almost $12bn in fines around the world.

The EU probe identified two separate cartels of traders — dubbed the “Three Way Banana Split” and “Essex Express” — that used online chat rooms to share information about customers’ orders, prices and other trading activities in order to manipulate the spot currency markets. Most of the traders knew each other on a personal basis, according to the European Commission, also using other chat rooms such as the “Semi-Grumpy Old Men”.

Citigroup was hit with the biggest fine of €311m, followed by RBS with €249m, JPMorgan at €229m, Barclays at €210m and MUFG with €70m. UBS also participated but avoided a €285m fine as it was the first to alert the EU to the cartels. The other banks settled the charges, and all but MUFG also applied for leniency which reduced fines by between 10 and 50 per cent.

The decision will clear the way for civil suits in the region, with law firm Scott and Scott poised to launch the European leg of a US class-action lawsuit that resulted in a $2.3bn settlement with 15 banks.

These cartel decisions send a clear message that the commission will not tolerate collusive behaviour in any sector of the financial markets

Margrethe Vestager, European competition commissioner
The market-rigging activity took place between 2007 and 2013, and involved 11 currencies, including the euro, pound and dollar. The information shared by traders “enabled them to make informed market decisions on whether to sell or buy the currencies they had in their portfolios and when. Occasionally, these information exchanges also allowed the traders to identify opportunities for co-ordination,” said the EU.

The EU said there was another investigation involving Credit Suisse, regarding “an alleged infringement which may have taken place in another chatroom” but it declined to provide any further details.

Credit Suisse said it “does not believe that its employees engaged in any conduct in the FX markets which violated the European Union’s competition rules”. It added that it was co-operating with the EU investigation “but intends to vigorously contest the substance of the allegations”.

“Foreign exchange spot-trading activities are one of the largest markets in the world, worth billions of euros every day,” said Margrethe Vestager, European competition commissioner. “These cartel decisions send a clear message that the commission will not tolerate collusive behaviour in any sector of the financial markets.”

JPMorgan said: “We are pleased to resolve this historical matter, which relates to the conduct of one former employee. We have since made significant control improvements.”

Barclays declined to comment. The British bank took a £240m provision related to the forex probe at the end of 2017, according to a filing.

RBS acknowledged the conclusion of the investigation and said its €249m fine was “fully covered by existing provisions”. It added that it was co-operating with other unnamed authorities on further, similar probes into past misconduct in currency trading and could face more “material” penalties and consequences.

Lawyers for investors in the US civil case have been waiting for the ruling to launch the European leg of claims. David Scott, managing partner of Scott and Scott, the co-lead on the US class-action claim, said European investors remained uncompensated.

Belinda Hollway, a Scott and Scott partner, said: “We’ve been waiting for this step before initiating a recovery action. Our firm will be working to recoup losses suffered by non-US pension funds, asset managers, insurance companies and multinational corporations, among others, as a result of the banks’ wrongdoing.”

In December, law firm Quinn Emanuel filed a claim for damages in London in a 200-page document against RBS, UBS, HSBC, Barclays, Citigroup and JPMorgan, alleging that they manipulated the currencies markets, according to Boris Bronfentrinker, a partner at the law firm.
If you are a fellow member of the foreign exchange (FX) trading family, you probably understand when I refer to the entire process as something out of Bedrock. Bedrock, as you recall, is the fictional prehistoric town in the cartoon series The Flintstones. The Stone Age environment is an apt description for a trading process that, when compared to today’s digital-first world, is antiquated and downright Paleolithic.
Imagine the following exchange between a prehistoric Barney and Fred, which isn’t too far off how it works today:Fred: I’ll give you 38 pebbles for 53 dinosaur bones, Barney.
Barney: I don’t have any bones to send you at the moment.
Fred: Don’t worry. I trust you. And you have two business days to find those bones, anyway. So, is it a deal?
Barney: You bet! (Mutters to himself) Just hope I don’t run into any problems over the weekend.
That may be a simplified version of the problem, but it begs the question: Isn’t it time FX trading moved out of the Stone Age and into the digital age?
Vices Become Habits
Before online systems became foreign exchange’s trading backbone, people kept manual blotters. In the example above, it’s a safe bet that Fred kept close track of his pebbles-for-dinosaur-bones offer, and Barney surely did, too. Mark up this side of the ledger. Mark up that side of the ledger. And hold your breath that an obscure bank in some far-off land doesn’t go bust and get liquidated before it sends its counterparties the currencies they are expecting
Eventually, things did come up to “speed,” at least the level of speed traders came to expect in the early 1960s. The telex and telephone became the tools of choice, but back offices still could not guarantee transactions would always go where they were intended and in the right amounts. There were misunderstandings. Payments went to the wrong banks in whole or in part. Maybe they were sent gross and not net.
Eventually SWIFT, the Belgium-based Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, came along and obviated a lot of the mess. That was in 1973, and nothing has changed all that much except that with broad use of the internet, messages now travel faster.
However, there is still risk in the system, particularly delivery risk (also known as Herstatt risk). This delivery risk is there because it takes two days for a transaction to make its way through the trade/confirm/settle process.
Think about it this way: You can go to an ATM, punch in a bunch of numbers and obtain cash instantly, and your bank knows to deduct that from your account right away. But a foreign exchange trade takes two days to settle. Why?
Promising DevelopmentsYou could blame the technology, but that is no longer an excuse. Recent developments have the potential to bring foreign exchange trading into the modern world. I have a deep background in institutional finance and also had the opportunity to lead my own startup accelerator. This offered unique insights into emerging technology, and over time, I became an expert in blockchain and cryptocurrencies.
Blockchain may sound like a word from The Flintstones, but it’s a 21st century way to help solve the problem. As I learned more about its capabilities, I realized it holds the potential to dramatically improve a range of industries, and I now run a company using blockchain to reimagine the institutional foreign exchange market. Blockchain is particularly useful in the trading environment, because without it, every trading partner has its own system and cannot see into its counterparty’s system. By providing a mutual ledger, one book of records for everyone to see, blockchain offers a single source of truth, which can help speed things up.
But the blockchain cannot do it all by itself. After all, Barney still needs to find dinosaur bones for Fred. Bones may not be easy to find. He may have to visit his local bank to fetch some, but if his bank is on the smaller side, then his bank has to go to its bank, a much bigger one, to find those bones. As for Fred, he may not have those pebbles ready to go, either, so he’d need to do the same, before the trade could be settled. Multiplied by millions of Freds and millions of Barneys, it takes time.
But what if peers could trade currencies with peers making the need for this spider web of correspondent banks disappear? Could simplified peer-to-peer exchanges that still operate within the banking system speed things up?
They could, but one more change has to fall into place: The funds still have to be available, more or less immediately. There needs to be a payment-liquidity component. Where will the liquidity come from? The obvious answer: lenders. These could be the banks themselves, asset managers or wealth managers. They could also be corporate treasurers who are stewards of some trillion dollars in cash, much of which sits around earning close to nothing. This is cash that could find a nice home for as little as a few minutes in a foreign exchange marketplace.
Several hurdles exist in the current peer-to-peer FX market, including the issue that trading takes two full days to complete and can come at high cost through wire fees and fixing breakages. System risks also abound. Blockchain-based FX markets today are mostly business to consumer, and these add additional risks due to the cryptocurrency step involved.
However, with some thoughtful changes, it truly won’t take much to reimagine foreign exchange, and the impact could be felt for generations to come. As Fred would say, “Yabba dabba doo!”
The foreign-exchange (fx) market is as opaque and old-fashioned as it is enormous. Most of its $5trn of daily trading happens “over-the-counter” (otc), in deals negotiated between banks and private customers, rather than on exchanges. Many orders are still placed by phone. Gauging the market’s size and structure usually means relying on outdated surveys. The most comprehensive review, by the Bank for International Settlements, is conducted only once every three years. 

Yet modernity is arriving—in fits and starts. Last month it emerged that Deutsche Börse, Europe’s third-largest stock exchange, was close to buying fx all, an electronic fx-trading platform, for a reported $3.5bn. If it happens the deal could end up being one of the largest in Deutsche Börse’s history. It hints at a shake-up in a sector that has long been deemed antediluvian.
Five banks including Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland have been fined more than €1bn (£875m) by the European Union for rigging the multitrillion-dollar foreign exchange market.

The European commission said the banks, which also include Citigroup, JP Morgan and MUFG (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group), formed two cartels to manipulate the spot foreign exchange market for 11 currencies, including the US dollar, the euro and the pound.
The commission’s penalty adds to the £1.3bn in fines imposed by the UK Financial Conduct Authority in 2014 over the same case. While the FCA’s penalty focused on the lender’s breach of regulations, the EU’s fine deals with how their behaviour dampened competition.

“These cartel decisions send a clear message that the commission will not tolerate collusive behaviour in any sector of the financial markets,” the European competition commissioner, Margrethe Vestager, said in a statement.

The banking industry has been hit with billions in fines worldwide over the last decade for rigging benchmarks used in many day-to-day financial transactions, and are now at risk of private lawsuits.

Law firm Scott + Scott said it is preparing to launch a case on behalf of European clients after securing a $2.3 bn (£1.8bn) settlement in a US class action suit related to foreign exchange market rigging. That class action involved 15 banks, including HSBC, Barclays, RBS, UBS, BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank.

Belinda Hollway, a partner at Scott + Scott Europe, said: “We’ve been waiting for this step before initiating a recovery action. Our firm will be working to recoup losses suffered by non-US pension funds, asset managers, insurance companies and multinational corporations, among others, as a result of the banks’ wrongdoing.”
Vestager said most of the traders involved in the manipulation knew each other on a personal basis and set up chatrooms with names such as “Essex Express ’n the Jimmy” because all of them except “James” lived in Essex and met on their train commute to London.

One cartel ran between December 2007 to January 2013, while the other operated from December 2009 to July 2012, it added.

A group dubbed the “Three-Way Banana Split”, made up of traders at UBS, Barclays, RBS, Citigroup and JP Morgan, was handed a fine totalling €811.2m, with Citigroup taking the biggest hit at €310.8m.

The Essex Express cartel, involving UBS, Barclays, RBS and MUFG, was handed a €257.7m fine, with the penalty against Barclays the largest for this cartel at €94.2m.
Swiss bank UBS dodged a fine from the commission, having alerted the two cartels to the European commission.

JP Morgan and RBS said they were pleased to have settled the cases and that they had since made changes to their controls. JP Morgan said it related to the conduct of one former employee and RBS that it served as a reminder of how it had lost its way in the past.

MUFG said it had also taken measures to prevent a reoccurrence. Barclays and Citigroup declined to comment.
Pollen Street Capital, the private equity firm backing Foreign Currency Direct, has acquired UK based Infinity International.

The acquisition will result in Infinity International, headquartered in Canary Wharf, merging with Foreign Currency Direct, following Pollen Street’s initial investment in Foreign Currency Direct in May 2018. Pollen Street has now created a Group, which also includes Pure FX, that has transacted over £5.6 billion in foreign exchange over the last three years.

Infinity International has been trading since 2007 and predominantly services UK and European businesses. They have transacted over £4 billion since inception. 

The acquisition will expand the Group’s offering to add a specialist corporate foreign exchange service, alongside their existing presence in the private client market through the Foreign Currency Direct and Pure FX brands.

Tom Higham, Managing Director of Foreign Currency Direct stated: “We’re delighted to welcome Rob and the team at Infinity to the Group. Their expertise and experience in the corporate payments industry along with their value of delivering truly best in class service to all their clients complements our existing strengths and will enable us to deliver a more complete international payments solution for the UK market. This represents the second addition to the Group since Pollen Street’s investment in 2018 as we continue to find exciting and successful businesses to join our Group.”

Rob Groves, Chief Executive Officer of Infinity International added: “We are excited to be joining the Group and firmly believe that our core strengths naturally align and that together we will deliver an industry leading proposition.”

Michael England, Partner at Pollen Street Capital said: “Infinity is an innovative business providing customers with an alternative to using their banks for international payments. With a focus on bringing best value products and the highest quality service to customers, it operates in a fast-growing market with a strong position and we are excited about the opportunity to invest in the company and be part of the next chapter of its story. Alongside Tom and the Foreign Currency Direct team we look forward to adding Pollen Street’s extensive financial services experience and network to help accelerate the company’s growth, building on the strong platform currently in place.”
The Turkish Lira failed to incur further losses on Monday with the TRY firm against a basket of major peers in early trade.
At the time of writing, the British Pound to Lira exchange rate was last seen trading at L7.7153 with the cross finding support around April's high.

The Lira has borne the brunt of abysmal sentiment over recent weeks with domestic and external, geopolitical and economic factors contributing to weigh heavily on the TRY whilst fuelling concerns of a repeat of 2018's Lira crash.

While the TRY has yet to register as dramatic losses as those incurred last year which saw the Lira tumble by 30+%, relative to yearly opening prices, the Lira has still borne some hefty losses with the GBP/TRY currently over 15% higher.

Last week saw Turkish authorities abandon plans to to transfer around 40 billion lira (or US$6.6B) from the Central Bank of Turkey's legal reserves to the Treasury to shore up a larger than expected budget deficit while retaining pressure on banks to make an effort to turn deposits in foreign currencies into lira as foreign speculators and Turks alike continue to hoard foreign currency over the domestic.

Commenting on the methods by which banks could do so, chairman of Turkeys BDDK banking watchdog, Mehmet Akben wrote "For example, (banks’) branches being given premiums for holding lira deposits can be an option. Branches can be assigned targets."

End of April data showed foreign currency holdings by Turkish residents had exceeded Lira holdings for the first time in history as people seek to secure their capital from potential market volatility.

While the Lira has been largely on the back foot throughout 2019, recent data releases have shown tentative indications that an economic recovery might not be too far off - although much depends on interim developments.

For one, momentum in the unemployment trend has decelerated over recent months, hinting at some moderation in labour market strains with lower unemployment attributed to government actions such as additional subsidies to social security contributions of large firms.

Furthermore, the latest industrial production figures from the nation registered a third successive rise, printing quarterly growth of 1.7%.

"Overall, the IP data confirms some stabilisation, as lending has recovered with support from state banks and the introduction of a number of stimulus measures," wrote ING chief economist, Muhammet Mercan, adding "However, whether this performance can be maintained is unclear as lending activity has been losing momentum again in 2Q while downside risks to the economic recovery will remain due to global and geopolitical uncertainties."

While masking a worrying decline in domestic demand, Turkey's currency account deficit - a key source of economic concern given US-Turkey tension - has also improved over recent months with March data reflecting a narrowing of the current account deficit to US$-13.4B (12m rolling average) - the best level in over 10 years.

Nevertheless, Turkey remains a crux of increasingly worrying geopolitical pressure with US-Turkey relations continuing to be strained.

The most recent commentary in this regards came over the weekend from Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan who reiterated his previous statements that the Lira's current losses are attributed to foreign meddling while adding that these "games" would be thwarted following the upcoming re-run of the Istanbul mayoral election.

In a televised Q&A session over the weekend, Erdogan said "Ahead of the last election, the West tried to corner us by applying pressure on the currency, interest rates and inflation,” adding "All these games will be thwarted once we get over the election."

In response to Turkey's continued plans to purchase the Russian-made S400 missile-defence system to the chagrin of the US administration, last week saw the US terminate preferential trade terms - however the market impact was largely offset by a cut in steel tariffs from 50% to 25%.

"I have determined that, based on its level of economic development, it is appropriate to terminate Turkey's designation as a beneficiary developing country effective May 17, 2019," President Trump said late last week.

Moving forward, investors will be looking to see what if any measures the CBRT imposes to stabilise the Lira.

"Investors would be wondering what other tools the administration may use to stimulate lending (and) growth at a time when they don’t have much room to maneuver,” wrote EM foreign exchange strategist Piort Matys at Rabobank.

Other analysts were pessimistic on the CBRT's ability to shore up the Lira's defences. “It seems questionable whether Turkey’s war chest of foreign reserves is strong enough to withstand anything that even vaguely resembles a currency attack,” wrote Monex market analyst, Bart Hordijk in a note to clients.

The re-run of the Istanbul election could also be a key Lira-moving factor in the near-term with clear political risks surrounding the potential for a second AKP party defeat. Ahead of the vote, analysts noted the potential for Erdogan's hopes of a victory in the re-run to backfire.

"They voted because the economy sucks,” said Atilla Yesilada at Global Source Partners, referring to Turks who had switched to the opposition, “And now it sucks even more.”

Advertisement

The U.S. Treasury added Singapore, Malaysia and Vietnam to a watchlist for currency manipulation, putting their foreign-exchange policies under scrutiny.

Singapore made the list because of its large current account surplus and net foreign currency purchases of at least $17 billion in 2018, equivalent to 4.6% of GDP, according to the Treasury. Malaysia and Vietnam were cited for their bilateral trade and current account surpluses.

Read More: U.S. Spares China FX Manipulator Tag, Expands Watchlist

Countries with a current-account surplus with the U.S. equivalent to 2% of gross-domestic product are now eligible for the list, down from 3%. Other thresholds include persistent intervention in markets for a nation’s currency, and a trade surplus of at least $20 billion. Countries that meet two of the three criteria are placed on the watch list.

Being labeled a currency manipulator doesn’t come with immediate penalties but can rattle financial markets.

The Treasury said Singapore should undertake reforms that will lower its high saving rate and boost low domestic consumption, while striving to ensure that its real exchange rate is in line with economic fundamentals, to help narrow its large and persistent external surpluses. It also welcomed Singapore’s pledge to report more intervention data, while acknowledging that currency adjustments are its main monetary policy tool.

Singapore’s central bank said in a statement that “it does not manipulate its currency for export advantage.” The Monetary Authority of Singapore uses the exchange rate to ensure price stability and can’t use it to gain an export advantage or achieve a current account surplus, it said.

Malaysia Intervention
“Singapore’s monetary policy adjustments are primarily made through its currency, hence, intervention activities are relatively heavier,” said Christy Tan, head of markets strategy at National Australia Bank. “I doubt it will have a meaningful impact,” she said.

Malaysia was cited for its bilateral trade surplus with the U.S. of $27 billion last year and its current account surplus of 2.1% of GDP. The Treasury noted Malaysia intervened in foreign currency markets in both directions in the past, and had net sales of foreign exchange equivalent to 3.1% of GDP last year to resist the depreciation of the ringgit.

Malaysia’s central bank said the country supported free and fair trade and didn’t have unfair currency practices, adding that inclusion on the list had no consequences for the country’s economy.

“The ringgit exchange rate is market-determined and is not relied upon for exports competitiveness,” Bank Negara Malaysia said in a statement.

Trade War
The other two Asian countries on the list are Japan and South Korea. India was removed from the watch group, given that it’s met only one of the three criteria -- a “significant” bilateral surplus with the U.S. -- for two straight reports.

Vietnam was at risk of meeting all three of the Treasury’s new criteria for the currency manipulator tag. The Treasury excused Vietnam’s recent currency intervention, citing movements in both directions and net foreign exchange purposes that had “reasonable rationale” to rebuild reserves.

Kim Hwan, an economist at NH Investment & Securities in Seoul, said U.S.-China trade tensions may have played a role in the Treasury’s move. The fact that Singapore, Vietnam and Malaysia are added to the list “indicates the U.S. is continuing to pressure China,” said Kim. “These countries are all Southeast Asian countries that have close economic correlations with China.”

Japan was urged to enact structural reforms that would ease the public debt burden and trade imbalances, and South Korea was called on to limit currency interventions even as it was applauded for fresh disclosures on those actions.
Spot USDCAD is trading at its lowest level since October 2018, but the recent downtrend could be jeopardized by technical support at the critical 1.3000 handle. 
The latter portion of yesterday’s US session was interesting. In a speech from the NY Fed President, John Williams said the bank should ‘act quickly.’ And with global markets focusing-in on the Fed for the FOMC rate decision in two weeks, that comment was inferred to mean that the bank is currently looking to get very dovish very quickly in the effort of addressing the current growth slowdown. This off-hand comment punched the US Dollar lower and Gold prices caught a firm bid to drive up to fresh six-year-highs. The intra-day losses that had shown in US equity bourses were quickly erased ahead of the close as it appeared as if the world’s largest Central Bank was ready to start a new trend of softening that could be here for a little while; running in stark contrast to the one rate cut that the bank had forecast at their June rate decision.

In rates markets, there was a near immediate pricing-in of 50 basis points of softening at the July rate decision. Ahead of that comment, odds were showing at around 38%. Shortly after this made its way through markets, those odds jumped up to 63.5%, as discussed by our own Rich Dvorak.

Later in the evening, however, the NY Fed came out with a correction. The bank said that the comment from Mr. Williams was in reference to longer-term economic research, and that he didn’t necessarily mean to remark on near-term dynamics. And just as quickly as the US Dollar had dropped previously, strength showed back up and many of the above-mentioned themes pulled back.

On the below hourly chart of the S&P 500, the bounce coming in off of those comments from John Williams is very clear, as it erased the entirety of the early-day losses in the index with resistance coming-in off of the 14.4% Fibonacci retracement of the recent bullish move.
Taking a step back on the S&P to the four-hour chart, and there could be scope for sell-off, particularly given the fact that the bullish driver that catapulted this thing higher yesterday has been walked-back. And speaking to the prospect of a 50 basis point cut in two weeks, this morning brought comments from one of the more bearish FOMC members of James Bullard, where he didn’t seem to entertain the possibility at all.

So through the chaos of yesterday’s drive, we’re practically back to where we had started as there is no clear evidence that the Fed is looking at this oncoming rate cut as anything more than a one-off adjustment after ‘over-tightening’ last year.

From the four-hour chart of the S&P 500, resistance has shown around the under-side of a prior bullish trend-line, confluent with the 14.4% Fibonacci retracement of the recent bullish move.
This Saturday marks the start of the Fed’s ‘blackout period,’ meaning that bank members are prohibited from media engagements in the effort of avoiding scenarios similar to what we’ve just seen. But this leaves market participants to their own devices as projections will likely continue to run wild as to what the Fed might actually do, and how they may do it.

In the US Dollar, the currency was on its back foot for most of yesterday after some dovish comments from Fed Vice Chair, Richard Clarida; but USD was absolutely slammed around these Williams remarks. Since the NY Fed has walked that back, however, a strong topside move has since developed, and it could be difficult to pick the proper direction here as there is now motive on either side of the scenario. This is the type of situation in which balancing risk around the US Dollar as part of the overall strategy could be a very attractive way of going about matters.In a market environment that hangs on the balance of what a few people might decide to do, there isn’t a lot that’s certain right now. Perhaps thickening the drama is that its not just about what they do, but how they do it. Will the Fed pitch this rate cut as a one-off? Or, will they highlight the potential for more softening down-the-road in the effort of re-spurring growth in the US economy? This can be a difficult case to make at the moment from the perspective of the bank’s dual mandate. Neither inflation nor employment are looking in dire need of support at the moment.

But there remains a fairly massive disconnect between market expectations and FOMC projections. Markets want to see three rate cuts by the end of this year. The Fed, at this point, has only talked about the possibility of one.

The one item that is clear is that rate hikes probably aren’t happening anytime soon around the FOMC; or any other major Central Banks for that matter. And this is the type of environment in which Gold gets very interesting, as witnessed over the past six weeks as the yellow metal has broken out to fresh six-year-highs.

At this stage, Gold prices have pulled back as those Williams comments were ‘re-clarified,’ but support is now showing at prior resistance. This prior resistance zone runs from 1421-1433, and a hold here can keep the door open for bullish strategies. If USD-strength does continue to show ahead of the Fed, there’s scope for deeper support even-lower on the chart, as discussed earlier this week ahead of the breakout.
In the absence of other high-profile economic data, EURUSD traders will likely divert their attention to the publication of preliminary University of Michigan sentiment data. The report is expected to show a 98.8 print, slightly higher than the previous 98.2 publication. If it undershoots, it would likely fuel what are already-aggressive rate cut expectations from the Fed, with markets now pricing in a slightly lower-than-even odds of a 50 bp cut this month.

What is worrisome is the high bar markets have set for the central bank. If the Fed fulfills the wish of market participants and does indeed slash rates by 50 bp, that leaves little room for upside momentum because that much seems to have already been priced into asset values. Conversely, if the central bank only cuts rates once, investors may panic because the Fed’s policy decision is less dovish – or relatively more hawkish – than expectations.
Towards the end of Thursday’s trading session, Federal Reserve Bank of New York President John Williams peppered financial markets with dovish rhetoric with statements of him seeing the current estimate for neutral rates at 0.5 percent. Furthermore, he also stressed the need for the central bank to “act quickly” – when it came to cutting rates – at the first sign of economic distress.

Then, the loquacious Fed member threw a curveball by announcing that the commentary was not about “potential policy action” but rather academic ruminations. Markets promptly reacted with a flood of capital pouring into the US Dollar while crosses with the Greenback suffered. Expect volatility like today – and likely higher – next week with the ECB rate decision and publication of US Q2 GDP data.Financial markets are turning risk averse heading into Friday’s Asia Pacific trading session, with AUD/USD and NZD/USD pointing lower amidst broad US Dollar strength. The cause of worry stemmed from investors overpricing odds of a 50 basis point rate cut that the Federal Reserve now looks increasingly unlikely to deliver at the end of this month.

On Thursday, New York Fed President John Williams juiced the S&P 500 at the cost of front-end government bond yields when he said that the central bank should “act quickly” to lower rates at the first sign of economic distress. This translated into broad US Dollar weakness and caused gold prices – the anti-fiat precious metal – to breakout to the upside.

This now looks overdone after it was reported that his speech was not about “potential policy action” but rather tailored for “academic” speech. Something to keep in mind of is that the central bank is heading into a blackout period, where policymakers will not be able to speak publicly until July’s interest rate decision passes. Without support, this leaves markets vulnerable until then should earnings or trade wars turn worse.
On a daily chart, AUD/USD is aiming lower after testing long-term falling channel resistance from the end of last year. This did follow a break above horizontal resistance between 0.7022 and 0.7048, and as such it should be treated with a grain of salt, especially given recent fundamental developments. A descent under 0.7022 opens the door to potentially resuming the dominant downtrend.
The upside push that S&P 500 futures saw in the aftermath of Wall Street close has lost some vigor. The risk of disappointment in markets on fading aggressive Fed easing bets is a clear downside risk for sentiment. If this translates into risk aversion in the final 24 hours of the week, the Greenback could have more room to recover at the expense of its Australian and New Zealand counterparts.
The US Dollar will likely experience higher-than-usual volatility in the week ahead as the IMF prepares to publish its updated outlook for the world economy along with the release of critical US economic data. Depending on the nature of the data, if it falls in line with the fundamental trajectory of slower growth and increased risks to the financial system, the US Dollar may experience capital inflow from panicked investors.

The biggest event risk for the week will likely be the release of US Q2 GDP data. The report is expected to show a quarter-on-quarter annualized growth rate of 1.8 percent which would mark the slowest pace of expansion since Q1 2017. Since February, economic data out of the US has been tending to underperform relative to economists’ expectations. It would not be surprising to see GDP data fall in line with this trend.
US Dollar strength may also emerge from the publication of the IMF’s World Economic Outlook update, the title of which in January was “A Weakening Global Expansion”. Given the trajectory of global growth and tense trade relations in developed and emerging markets, it is likely the updated outlook will carry the same pessimistic undertones outlined in January’s report. Only this time, the gloom and doom may be amplified.

With market participants already expecting slightly lower-than-even oddsof a 50 bp cut at the FOMC meeting in July, it leaves increasingly less room for additional dovish expectations. If GDP data undershoots and the IMF report spooks investors, the US Dollar may rise as traders shift from chasing yields to preserving capital. As such, the downward pressure of Fed rate cut bets may be overwhelmed by the desire for liquidity in uncertain times.
The Australian Dollar gained on its US big brother last week, a process largely but by no means solely driven by broad weakness in the latter.

The prime mover, obviously, is the expectation that the Federal Reserve will shortly begin to cut interest rates once again, whether or not it opts to do so at its next scheduled monetary policy conclave on July 31.

The Aussie does have some domestic support however.

Labor market data released on July 18 showed an underwhelming headline net increase of just 500 jobs for June. However, there was a lot more cheer in the detail which showed an encouraging surge in full-time work as well as a steady participation rate. Investors know that the Reserve Bank of Australia places special emphasis on these numbers when it meets to set rates. The latest figures show that Australia’s enviable record of strong job creation endures.

Moreover there is a suspicion that, after back to back monthly rate cuts in June and July, the RBA has done all it intends to do on that front. Unless there is absolutely no sign that inflation is picking up, further cuts may be unlikely given the astonishing indebtedness of Australian consumers, understandable though it is after years of record-low borrowing costs.

The coming week is likely to see continued emphasis on the ‘USD’ side of the AUDUSD pair, with Fed commentary at its usual premium. Domestically markets will get a look at July’s timely Purchasing Managers Indexes for Australia.
There’s also a speech from RBA Governor Philip Lowe due, on Thursday. Assistant Governor Christopher Kent will speak on Tuesday.

It’s possible that either or both of them will have something to say about the Australian Dollar’s recent bounce from its 2019 lows. A resurgent currency won’t be much help when it comes to juicing inflation, as it will keep the price of imports down.

However, given that the underlying source of this bounce has been broad US Dollar weakness, they seem unlikely to fight it too hard. The RBA is notably pragmatic about such things.

On balance then, the Aussie looks likely to continue to gain, unless the US data round puts near-term rate cuts there in doubt. It’s a bullish call this week.
Whether you’re new to trading or an old hand DailyFX has plenty of resources to help you. There’s our trading sentiment indicator which shows you live how IG clients are positioned right now. We also hold educational and analytical webinars and offer trading guides, with one specifically aimed at those new to foreign exchange markets. There’s also a Bitcoin guide. Be sure to make the most of them all. They were written by our seasoned trading experts and they’re all free.
Sterling (GBP) is likely to become more volatile as the clock ticks down to the latest Brexit deadline - October 31st – with both sides becoming increasingly weary and frustrated at the continued ‘cankicking’ exercise. Against this backdrop, Sterling is likely to become more volatile, a boon for traders who have had to sit back and watch most Sterling pairs trade in relatively restricted ranges over the past three months.

Losses persisted for GBPUSD after failing to consolidate above the 1.3000 handle. Although, at the back end of Q2, the pair had managed to find stability above 1.2500, which also coincided with the rising trendline stemming from the October 2016 flash crash. While the pair may have found a floor at 1.2500 in the near-term, momentum indicators on the longer-term timeframes (weekly & monthly) remain tilted towards a bearish bias, thus a retest of 1.2500 cannot be ruled out, particularly if a closing break below the key trendline was made, which would expose the 1.2426 January low.
Crude oil prices turned sharply lower last week, suffering the largest drop in two months. Building oversupply concerns appear to be the underlying catalyst for weakness as slowing global growth cools uptake expectations while US output continues to register near record highs.

Short-term volatility aside, this has been a driving narrative for some time. The JPMorgan PMI gauge of global economic activity growth peaked in February 2018 and has trended lower since. Not surprisingly, an IEA measure of worldwide crude demand topped along with prices a mere seven months thereafter.

The recent renewal of an OPEC-led supply cut scheme has not noticeably helped. That is not surprising. Prices were likewise unimpressed when the arrangement was previously refreshed in late 2018 and only began a lasting rebound when growing Fed rate cut speculation buoyed broader risk appetite.
The week ahead seemingly offers ample fodder for the selloff to continue. The IMF is likely to downgrade its global economic performance forecasts, an ECB policy announcement is expected to set the stage for easing amid the slowdown, and US GDP growth is seen hitting a three-year low in the second quarter.

A steady stream of high-profile corporate earnings releases might add to downside pressure. Bottom-line results have topped forecasts by an average of nearly 5 percent thus far in the second-quarter reporting season, with close to 15 percent of the bellwether S&P 500 in the rearview.

Markets have been more taken with decidedly downbeat forward guidance however. Some of the world’s top firms have warned that the latent effects of past Fed tightening, ongoing trade wars and geopolitical jitters like US-Iran saber-rattling and Brexit uncertainty will translate into business cycle downturn.The pound to euro exchange rate has made gains as we head towards the end of the trading week as it seems the euro has fallen out of favour with investors and the dollar seems to be the choice of the day. With euro vs US dollar being the biggest traded currency pairing in the world a movement in this rate can impact the currencies against other majors, and EUR/USD has seen the most in terms of volatility today.
German data showed a slight slow down in growth in the largest economy attached to the euro and members of the Federal Reserve had signified that the anticipated 0.5% cut in interest rates at the end of the month may only be 0.25% which has benefited the dollar ever so slightly.

Throw UK news into the mix and the UK is due to announce a new Prime Minister early next week, which may not have a huge impact on the currency markets initially, but it does mean that there is the potential for a little progress with Brexit again.
In terms of politics there are still major issues within Italy and most notably Italian politics, where there are fears of a Government crisis and possibly there is a chance that an election is on the horizon.

Political uncertainty can be damaging for a currency and it is no secret that Italy has a number of political and economic problems, should they increase then it is likely that we may see this start to weigh on the euro.

Next week it will be of great interest to see if the UK firstly has Boris Johnson as a Prime Minister and secondly if the pound receives a ‘Boris Bounce’ or if he continues to champion the fact he is willing to carry out a ‘no deal’ Brexit which could weaken the pound.

If you have the need to carry out a currency exchange involving the pound, euro or dollar in the near future then you are more than welcome to get in touch with us here at Pound Sterling Forecast and we will be happy to help you both in terms of up to date market information, economic data and general market sentiment. Feel free to fill in the form for more information, I look forward to hearing from you.
Foreign exchange analysts at Goldman Sachs have this week said they believe the Pound could be due some relief if the new Prime Minister opts to strike a more conciliatory tone with the EU when he enters office.

The British Pound has been grinding steadily lower since May when it became clear Prime Minister Theresa May's EU Brexit deal would not pass through parliament and her position had therefore become untenable, but it has over the course of the past 24 hours shown an intention to form a potential base against both the Euro and U.S. Dollar.

For now, currency strategists remain wary of any strength with many looking for it to be a temporary phenomenon as the prospect of a new Prime Minister who is open to leaving the EU without a deal has  risen sharply as the Conservative Party looks set to anoint Boris Johnson as its next leader, and the country's Prime Minister.

However, should the new Prime Minister strike a more constructive approach with Europe, Sterling might be able to recover further.

"With Boris Johnson widely expected to prevail, market attention has begun to turn to Parliament’s summer recess (July 25 to September 3), and the new PM’s likely diplomacy with EU capitals during that period," says Zach Pandl at Goldman Sachs. "If Mr. Johnson were to turn mildly more conciliatory over the near-term as he seeks to find a path for a cooperative exit at the end of October, this could see EUR/GBP pull back from its local highs, this could see EUR/GBP pull back from its local highs."

The high in EUR/GBP is at 0.9010, achieved on July 10, which translates into a low for GBP/EUR exchange rate at 1.1098.

During the leadership selection process Johnson has advocated leaving the EU without a deal should no new settlement be forthcoming from the EU by October 31.

Market pricing for a 'no deal' Brexit has understandably risen over recent weeks, coinciding with a record run of ten consecutive weekly declines for the Pound-to-Euro exchange rate and the UK currency has not yet recovered enough over the past 24 hours to avoid an 11th successive weekly decline.

The declines take the exchange rate close to Goldman Sachs' three-month target of 1.11, however there is the potential for this level to remain unbroken says Zach Pandl, a currency strategist with Goldman Sachs in New York who warns that there is a chance the new Prime Minister could adopt a more constructive tone with the EU.

Members of the Conservative Party are currently voting and the winner will be announced on July 22. 

The suggestion that Johnson might adopt a more constructive approach to EU partners is not an outlandish one, as Johnson himself has previously said he does not for a second believe a 'no deal' outcome will take place on October 31.

Johnson does appear intent on negotiating with the EU: critically we are not overly confident if this means a renegotiation, or a completely fresh negotiation. We suspect he will

"Beyond the very near-term, however, the outlook for Sterling looks highly uncertain, which markets have reflected with a sharp move higher in forward volatility," says Pandl.

Goldman Sachs maintain a structural view that is positive for the Pound, "as our economists continue to see low odds of a 'no deal' exit, and because investor underweights in UK assets are meaningful," says Pandl.

"But we will await more information - especially more clarity on Labour’s Brexit strategy - before recommending longs," says Pandl.

A 'long' recommendation is a recommendation to buy a certain asset, and strategists only make such recommendations if their conviction reaches a certain threshold.

So while there is the potential for Sterling to recover over coming weeks, we are not looking at the start of a new multi-week rally.
The Pound has reached levels where it offers good value, says Dean Turner, an economist at UBS Wealth Management, and its downside potential from here is limited.

“We think Sterling starts to look interesting at around these levels, quite frankly,” says Turner, adding, “it starts to look attractive because if nothing else just on fair value alone Sterling is an extremely cheap currency right now.”

Since it is UBS’s base case that the UK will not leave the EU on October 31 without a deal, there seems little fundamental reason for a weaker Pound, especially considering the UK’s resilient economic data. Instead, it may be a case of ‘the only way is up’.

“The case for sustained selling of the Pound I find much more difficult to get on board with,” says Turner.

When the pound was previously at its current low levels - 1.24 GBP/USD and 1.10 GBP/EUR - which happened in December and January 2018/19, it was prevented from going lower as buyers started to pile in.

“Previously when we have seen Sterling this low and if we think back to February 2017 which was the Lancaster House speech and we saw that sharp drop when markets woke up and thought ‘Oh Theresa May really means Brexit’ we saw that for the Pound to sustain those levels was very difficult because we do start to see buyers come in,” says UBS’s Turner.

Another reason the Pound could get stronger is that UK assets are looking attractive as well which suggests portfolio inflows could be strong from foreign investors purchasing those assets.

“At the end of the day, Sterling assets are extremely attractive. The UK has a number of positive aspects going for it in terms of the corporate sector, but also in terms of what is happening in the bond market. It is one of the few Bond markets globally that still offers a yield,” says Turner in an interview with Bloomberg News.

And how low could Sterling go in the case of a n 'no deal' Brexit?

“If we were to see a no-deal outcome Sterling could fall as low as around 1.15,” says Turner. “It is still a possibility, but not our base case.

 The British Pound rallied against the Euro, Dollar and a host of other currencies through the Thursday-Friday seession as some potentially positive comments from the European Union's Chief Brexit negotiator and Ireland's Prime Minister came through.

Newswires reported that Barnier - who leads Brexit negotiations with the UK on the EU's behalf - is ready to work on alternative arrangements for the Irish border; we believe the quotes are taken from an interview given by Barnier to BBC Radio 4.

The issue of the Northern Irish border has long been a stumbling bloc in both the EU and UK reaching agreement on a Brexit deal, any suggestions of a substantial shift in position by the EU will therefore be seen by some market participants as a potential game-changer as it provides a chance for the UK's House of Commons to finally get behind an ammended Brexit deal.

"Barnier says open to Alternative Irish Border plan. Sequence of events post Tory PM being elected on 22 July points to renewed UK-EU talks and optimism for a Brexit deal. Oversold GBPUSD has asymmetric headline risks (more sensitive to positive over negative). Bullish hopes," says Viraj Patel, a foreign exchange strategist with Arkera.
The British Pound is under a fresh assault from the Euro, with the GBP/EUR exchange rate breaking down to a fresh 2019 low at 1.1058 on Tuesday, July 16 with markets fixating on a spike in expectations for a 'no deal' Brexit on October 31.

Declines come after Boris Johnson - the front-runner to replace Prime Minister Theresa May at the end of this month - told a leadership debate that he would look to get rid of the Northern Ireland backstop contained in the Brexit deal struck between the EU and UK. 

The Pound's sell-off then gained traction through the London afternoon session as reports emerged that 'Team Johnson' was seriously considering suspending parliament ahead of the Brexit deadline to ensure MPs failed to prevent a 'no deal'.

According to reports, Johnson could seek to suspend Parliament for two weeks in October with members of his campaign saying they would look to schedule a Queen's Speech to mark the start of a new parliamentary session in early November.

Parliament is usually 'out of session' for between one and two weeks ahead of a Queen's speech, meaning MPs would in effect be unavailable to stop a no-deal Brexit immediately before October 31.

The reports suggest Johnson is serious about a 'no deal' Brexit and it represents the first time that a clear strategy to achieving such an outcome has been aired.

The Pound had been under pressure from early on in the day as markets digested the outcome of a the final leadership debate between Johnson and Jeremy Hunt, in which Johnson said the so-called Irish backstop was in fact devised by UK negotiators, and not counterparts in the EU or Ireland.

"The problem is very fundamental. It has been devised by our own country as an instrument of incarceration," said Johnson.

The backstop is seen as being the single most important stumbling block to the current deal being voted through parliament, and EU leaders have time and again insisted that any new deal would have to contain the backstop.

Johnson is making it clear that he will not accept the mechanism, and it is therefore dawning on markets that the EU and UK might simply be unable to come to a negotiated settlement.

The Pound is feeling the heat as a result of markets increasing their bets for a 'no deal' Brexit.

The Pound declined "after both Prime Ministerial candidate’s Boris Johnson and Jeremy Hunt said the Irish backstop has to be abolished. Presumably, this would be the ”proposal” in any new deal presented to the EU," says Richard Grace, a currency strategist with CBA. "The implications are that the chances of a no‑deal hard Brexit have lifted or Northern Ireland remains with EU rules."

The GBP/EUR appears to have broken below a key level of support located at 1.11: this technical breakdown could well explain the sudden fall in the exchange rate seen over the course of London morning trade.
Robin Wilkin, a cross-asset strategist with Lloyds Bank says he is watching for a "clear break and close" below 1.0970 as this would take the exchange rate into a new 'bear' dynamic.

Options analyst Peter Stoneham at Thomson Reuters says there is "a risk we go sideways" as long as the market stays above 1.11.

However, he says the Euro's "long-term bull run will not roll over" and he prefers buying the Euro on any weakness in anticipation.

"Central bank policy and Brexit uncertainty is gripping the cross," says Stoneham who says "this week likely to be pivotal" for the exchange rate.

The Pound has struggled over recent weeks as political uncertainty spiked in the wake of Prime Minister Theresa May's resignation while expectations for a 'no deal' Brexit have risen as May's likely replacement, Boris Johnson, has pledged to take the UK out of the EU "do or die" on October 31. Adding to the Pound's woes is a clear slowdown in UK economic growth, which have lead markets to increase bets that an interest rate cut at the Bank of England is possible in coming months.

"GBP is clearly vulnerable against a backdrop of political uncertainty and a deteriorating UK economic environment," says Jane Foley, a foreign exchange strategist with Rabobank. "The Brexit outcome and politics developments remain the largest driving factor for GBP."

Rabobank are forecasting the GBP/EUR exchange rate to be at 1.11 in three months, but a resolution to the ongoing chronic political uncertainty should see Sterling to recover with the exchange rate forecast at 1.16 in six months.

The declines in Sterling come despite some better-than-forecast wage data being reported by the ONS, numbers that would typically be expected to support Sterling.

UK wages, with bonuses included, rose 3.4% in May which is well ahead of the 3.1% forecast by markets. Rising wages are important for the Pound as they tends to foreshadow changes in inflation: rising wages tends to lead to rising inflation, and this would typically elicit an interest rate rise at the Bank of England.

Rising interest rates tend to put a lid on inflation, and a side effect of higher interest rates are capital inflows that boost the currency.

"This morning’s labour data smashed expectations, with unemployment rates maintaining their historical lows whilst wage growth figures continued to outstrip inflation. However, the Pound cannot catch a break at the moment," says Hamish Muress, Senior Currency Strategist at OFX. “Under normal circumstances, positive labour data such as this would bolster the Pound, particularly given it is currently seen by many as undervalued. However, these are not normal circumstances that the Pound is trading under."
The Pound Australian Dollar (GBP/AUD) exchange rate is trading in a narrow range this morning as markets welcome the publication of the UK’s latest retail sales figures.

At the time of writing the GBP/AUD exchange rate is currently trading at around AU$1.7723, leaving the pairing virtually unchanged from this morning’s opening rate.
Whilst the Pound (GBP) is flat against the Australian Dollar (AUD) so far this morning, Sterling is accelerating against the majority of its other peers following the release of some upbeat retail sales figures from the UK.

According to data published by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) sales growth rebounded from -0.6% to 1% in June, storming past forecasts that sales would have contracted a further 0.3%.

The surge in retail sales was welcomed by GBP investors as analysts suggested the strong performance last week may be enough to prevent the UK economy from contracting in the second quarter.
Meanwhile, the Australian Dollar (AUD) was able to hold off the Pound’s (GBP) advances this morning thanks to the publication of Australia’s latest jobs report.

Whilst total employment growth almost stagnated last month, AUD investors appeared upbeat thanks to a strong pick-up in full-time employment, which offset the fall in part-time positions in June.

This helped to boost the ‘Aussie’ on expectations its will relieve some of the pressure on the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) to continue easing its monetary policy.
Looking ahead, the outlook for the Pound Australian Dollar (GBP/AUD) exchange rate looks rather bleak as persistent Brexit uncertainty threatens to drive Sterling lower.

In its latest fiscal risk report the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) warns that the Pound is likely to plummet and the UK risks falling into a recession in the event of a no-deal Brexit 
 South Africa's Rand extended gains over the Pound and Dollar in the final session of the week as investors continued to reward the central bank's decision not to cut interest rates as much as the market had been anticipating. 

The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) cut its interest rate by 25 basis points to 6.5% Thursday, citing recent falls in inflation and a struggling economy that's in need of support. The move was in line with the economist consensus although some in the markets had been betting on close to 0.50% worth of cuts. 

"The decision has left the rand stronger as the market was priced for nearly 50bps of easing ahead of the SARB announcement. This is in line with our prior expectations. However, ZAR looks a little too rich vs our forecasts now," says Cristian Maggio, head of emerging market strategy at TD Securities. 

Governor Lesetja Kganyago said Thursday the bank's quarterly-projection-model had indicated that only one interest rate cut is necessary before the end of 2019, which aal but rules out the additional cuts that financial markets have been hoping to see.
Changes in interest rates are normally only made in response to movements in inflation, which is sensitive to growth, but impact currencies because of the push and pull influence they have over capital flows. 

Capital flows tend to move in the direction of the most advantageous or improving returns, with a threat of lower rates normally seeing investors driven out of and deterred away from a currency. Rising rates have the opposite effect.

The SARB said Thursday that risks to the inflation outlook are "balanced" because the domestic economy is weak and wage growth is low, although the growth and inflation outlook could turn higher if advanced economies gather steam while prices could rise if the Rand weakens in response to market concerns over the nation's credit rating. 

"The market is aggressively positioned for cuts," says TD's Maggio, in his earlier note. "[Forward-rate-agreements} imply 42bps of easing; another 26bps of cuts are priced in for the 19 Sept meeting and a total of 89bps are priced in for year-end. This is approximately 40bps too much."
South Africa had a rough start to the year that saw the economy contract in the first quarter. The SARB downgraded its forecast for 2019 GDP growth Thursday but still projects a pick-up in 2020 and beyond.

Analysts at Bank of America said this week that because inflation is falling and the Rand has advanced against major currencies, the high-yield returns offered to international investors by South African government bonds are rising in "real" terms. The bank says this has been supporting the Rand. 

"Real 10-year yields based on core inflation are 5%, the highest since 2011 and substantially higher than at many of the major EM peers," says Ferhan Salman at Bank of America. "The trade truce and beginning of the Fed easing cycle should help EM FX and hence the South African rand...The current ZAR rally should also offer some relief to the SARB."

Salman and the Bank of America team have tipped an ongoing positive performance for the Rand in the short-term but are looking for the USD/ZAR rate to recover some lost ground before year-end, closing 2019 at 14.2. Although they also forecast a return back down to 13.9 by the end of 2020.
Credit Suisse has also tipped the Rand for more gains this week. The Swiss bank upgraded its short-term targets for the Rand and advocated "fading spikes" in the USD/ZAR rate Monday, which means buying dips in the Rand

"Given that markets are pricing for a cut of 18bps-20bps, a 25bps rate cut should have little impact on South African assets. We are biased in favor of fading spikes in USDZAR which could be triggered if a surprising 50bps rate cut is delivered," says Nimrod Mevorach at Credit Suisse.. 

Mevorach was unfazed Wednesday by the prospect of even a large 50 basis point cut to the SARB's cash rate. He says the SARB would be very unlikely to cut rates aggressively after that and notes the Fed is also expected to slash its own rate by a similar amount in the coming months. 

"We now find it likely that USDZAR will drop to the 13.50-13.55 area in case the broader bid for the dollar remains subdued. In such an environment the underlying downside pressures on USDZAR will likely persist, assuming that South Africa does not deliver adverse news locally.," Mevorach writes, in a note to clients. "We think it makes sense to fade spikes in USDZAR as long as this picture does not change materially."

 The Pound-to-Dollar exchange rate is trading at around 1.2530 at the start of the new week, 1.35% lower than where it started the previous week and close to the multi-month low set on Friday at 1.2481. Studies of the charts suggest the pair is in a downtrend which is expected to continue over the next five days.

The 4-hour chart - used to assess the trend over the short-term, which means the next 5 days - shows the pair falling in a downtrend since the end of June. According to the old trading adage that ‘the trend is your friend’ this downtrend is more likely to continue than reverse.
If the pair can break below the 1.2481 July 5 lows it will probably continue down to the next target at 1.2385 and the January lows.

Despite the overall bear trend, GBP/USD formed a bullish hammer candlestick at the July 5 lows and this was followed by a positive green candlestick. This is a bullish sign that the pair could turn around and start rising.

The RSI momentum indicator is in the oversold zone but if it rises and closes back above 30, as it looks to do, it would provide a buy signal for the pair, adding to the bullish evidence from the hammer candlestick.

The daily chart - used to provide an indication of the medium-term outlook which includes the next week-to-month ahead - is giving mixed signals: on the one hand, the pair is in a downtrend which is expected to continue, but on the other, price is converging bullishly with the RSI indicator which indicates the pair might rebound higher.
Convergence happens when price makes a new low but the RSI does not. The non-confirmation suggests waning downside momentum and an increased chance of recovery.

Set against the established downtrend this introduces a risk that the pair may rebound rather than continue lower. It is too early to say for sure whether this will lead to a happen - and the dominant downtrend remains intact for now - suggesting continued risks of a bearish extension lower to the target at 1.2385 and the key January lows.

The weekly chart is showing no clearly definable trend and indicates the pair could meander sideways between the Jan lows and the June highs indefinitely.
A break below the January lows, however, would confirm a probable bearish extension down to a target at 1.1915 and the key 2016 lows.

Alternatively, a break above the June highs at 1.2785 would reinvigorate bulls and probably lead to a move up to the key 1.3000 level close to a major long-term trendline.

The weekly chart is used to give an idea of the longer-term outlook, which includes the next few months.

"Prices have remained under pressure, helped by Friday’s broader USD strength. As such, we are re-testing the medium-term range lows. A recovery back through 1.2560-1.2610 resistance is needed to alleviate the immediate pressure and suggest further range trading," says Robin Wilkin, a cross-asset strategist with Lloyds Bank. "A decline and close below 1.2440 would be a new bearish dynamic and risk a deeper test of key longer-term support in the 1.22-1.20 region."
The main driver of the U.S. Dollar in the week ahead is likely to be speculation about future monetary policy triggered by commentary from Jerome Powell, the chairman of the Federal Reserve (Fed), when he delivers his semi-annual testimony to both Congress and Senate committees on Wednesday and Thursday respectively.

He is likely to reiterate the Fed’s more dovish June meeting message that it stands ready to lower interest rates should worsening economic conditions warrant it.

The shift in tone from the Fed has coincided with a spell of Dollar weakness, confirming hints of interest rate cuts over coming months tends to play negative for the currency.

After the strong rebound in June Non-Farm Payrolls, shown in Friday's data, he has reason to maintain a balanced message and there is a risk he may even have revised up his assessment, which would support the U.S. Dollar.

This is because the labour market is a key barometer of the health of the economy.

The minutes of the June Fed meeting are published on Wednesday and will provide further insight into Fed officials’ thinking on the trajectory of future monetary policy.

If there are any signs from the minutes that Fed members were especially dovish (meaning in favour of lower interest rates) this could weigh on the Dollar and vice versa if they were surprisingly hawkish (meaning in favour of higher interest rates).

There may also be scrutiny of the details of monetary policy tools. The Fed is currently reducing the number of bonds on its balance sheet by allowing them to mature and not reinvesting the proceeds when they do. This is a form of de facto tightening which the Fed could soon decide to conclude.

“In regards to the meeting minutes, interest will be high for any additional details on the balance sheet that could suggest an earlier end to tapering or further discussions on the equilibrium size and composition,” says an economic preview note from Wells Fargo.

The other major release is inflation data in the form of CPI and factory gate prices or PPI out on Thursday and Friday at 13.30 BST respectively.

CPI is forecast to come out at 0.0% in June from 0.1% previously and Core CPI to show a 0.2% rise from 0.1% in the month before.

On a yearly basis CPI is expected to remain at 2.0%.

Inflation is important because it informs monetary policy which is a direct driver of currencies especially G10 currencies. Although traditionally viewed as something negative for the economy, higher inflation is often positive for currencies as it drives up interest rates, and higher interest rates are a magnet for international capital.

“While the CPI numbers are not anticipated to be of much significance to investors’ pricing of a rate reduction by the Fed at the end of this month, weaker-than-expected figures would only reinforce the view that the US central bank will ease policy and this would keep the US Dollar on the backfoot,” says Raffi Boyadijian, an economist at FX broker, XM.com.
The main driver of the Pound in the week ahead is likely to be political uncertainty.

It will probably trade with a downside bias as a result of rumours the next leader of the Conservative party - in all probability Boris Johnson - will face little choice but to call a snap General Election before 2019 is out if he is to have any chance of passing a negotiated Brexit deal through parliament.

Expectations for the Conservative's wafer-thin majority to be overturned in the event Johnson tries to lead the UK into a 'no deal' exit from the EU would leave the fresh Prime Minister with little choice but hope that the country will back him in another vote.

However, General Elections usually result in more political uncertainty and weaken the Pound, so the outlook is overall bearish from a fundamental point of view.

We will be watching for further developments on this front over coming days, while keeping an ear on Johnson's campaign for suggestions as to how he might deliver Brexit.

The main economic driver is GDP data for May, which is expected to show a rebound of 0.3% after a negative growth rate in April.

UK economic growth is a key driver of the Pound as it influences capital inflows and a worse-than-expected result could impact negatively on the already vulnerable Pound.

“The economy probably underperformed its European partners in the second quarter as the Brexit extension has only prolonged the period of uncertainty for British businesses. UK GDP shrank by 0.4% month-on-month in April and data due on Wednesday is forecast to show GDP recovering by 0.3% in May,” says Raffi Boyadijian, an economist at XM.com.

The other main data releases for Sterling are industrial and manufacturing production in May, which are likely to show positive recoveries as April’s stats were kept ‘artificially’ low due to one-off factors.

“Both industrial and manufacturing output also slumped in April as firms sought to run down the large stockpiles they built in the prior month. In May, they’re expected to have rebounded by 1.5% and 2.5% m/m, respectively.”

All the major data releases are scheduled for release on Wednesday, July 10 and 9.30 BST.
The big thing in the market this past week was Fed Chair Powell’s semi-annual testimony to Congress. His prepared statement was generally downbeat, focusing on the problems facing the US economy, often in a “yes, but…” fashion: the economy is doing well, however inflation is well below target…GDP is growing at a strong pace, however the components of growth are worrisome… He even mentioned the debt ceiling and Brexit. Everything possible that might cause them to ease. Later, in the Q&A sessions on both days he delivered more hints that they would cut rates. Asked specifically whether Friday’s good NFP figure changed anything, he replied, “No…the bottom line for me is that the uncertainties around global growth and trade continue to weigh on the outlook. In addition, inflation continues to be muted. And those things are still in place.” On the second day he said, “I think we have signaled, and central banks around the world are seeing weakness everywhere and they’re also providing more accommodation, we’ve signaled that we’re open to doing that…” What more do people want? Before Powell’s text was released on Wednesday, the market was pricing in a 5% chance of no cut at the July meeting, a 95% chance of a 25 bps cut and no chance of a 50 bps cut. Now, the market sees an 83% chance of a 25 bps cut and a 17% chance of a 50 bps cut. All told, the market now sees a 58% chance of 75 bps or more of easing this year and only a 42% chance of 50 bps or less. The increasing likelihood that rate cuts this year will be deeper than expected should cause the dollar to weaken further, in my view.
Adding to the dollar’s woes are signs that the administration is getting serious about trying to devalue the currency. CNBC reported that Trump has asked aides to find a way to weaken the dollar in order to boost the economy ahead of next year’s presidential elections. Trump has also reportedly asked questions about the dollar while interviewing nominees for the Fed Board of Governors positions. The reports say that Treasury Secretary Mnuchin and chief economic advisor Kudlow don’t approve of such efforts, but we all know how closely Trump listens to his advisors – just ask (former) Secretary of Defense Mattis or (former) Secretary of State Tillerson. While Mnuchin and Kudlow may be opposed to it, these two don’t seem to me to be the type to resign over a point of honor – and even if they do, I’m sure someone in the administration could be found to pull the trigger. (Did you see the video of the Justice Department lawyer arguing in court that the federal government doesn’t have to provide soap, toothbrushes or even beds to detained children apprehended at the US-Mexico border even though the law requires the government to keep detainees in “safe and sanitary” facilities?) The risk of even verbal intervention to get the dollar down poses a significant threat to the dollar, as most other governments long ago stopped talking about exchange rates. The dollar was higher for much of the week, bolstered by the afterglow from Friday’s nonfarm payrolls, but after Powell’s’ commentary it ended the week lower.
The coming week doesn’t have that much in the way of major economic indicators. Most of them concern Britain, where politics, not economics, is determining the fate of the currency. There are two major political events: Robert Mueller’s testimony to the House Judiciary Committee on Wednesday, and Japan’s Upper House election on Sunday the 21st. There are no major central bank meetings. For the US, the main indicator will be US retail sales on Tuesday. This is an important indicator, given the nature of the US economy, but it’s unlikely to be decisive in determining whether the Fed moves 25 or 50 bps and therefore isn’t going to be that important for the FX market.

The Empire State manufacturing index and the Philaelphia Fed business sentiment index are also coming out. They’re both expected to rise, which would be good news; last month’s figures were pointing to a below-50 ISM manufacturing PMI. The forecast for this month’s figures indicate a steady ISM at around 51.7, which would tend to be bullish for USD.

As for Mr. Mueller’s testimony, I doubt if he’ll say anything more that isn’t in the report, or even if he’ll give more of a sense of his view on the affairs in question. Nonetheless, it could tip the scales in the House and force the Democrats to start impeachment proceedings, which could damage the dollar. If you haven’t read Mueller’s report (which I admit I haven’t), you can read a version of it turned into an illustrated novel here: https://www.insider.com/mueller-report-rewritten-trump-russia-mark-bowden-archer-2019-7 Monday morning, while those of us in Europe are still busy knitting up the raveled sleeve of care, China announces four major indicators: fixed asset investment (FIA), industrial production, retail sales, and the all-important China Q2 GDP. It’s expected to slow slightly to 6.3% yoy from 6.4%. The target for this year is a range of 6.0%-6.5%, down from “about 6.5%” last year. The market’s estimate of 6.3% would certainly be within that target range and so wouldn’t necessitate any policy response, but it could raise fears of slightly less activity in China. Risk negative

The third week of the month always sees a number of British indicators, to wit: the employment data on Tuesday; consumer price index (CPI) on Wednesday; and retail sales on Thursday. CPI is clearly the most important one. The expected figure – headline CPI expected to stay at exactly the target level of 2.0% for another month – would ordinarily play into the hands of those on the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) who are in favor of a gradual normalization ( = hike) of interest rates. However, the Bank is basing its forecasts on the assumption of a smooth Brexit deal, while the market is more realistically assuming some variant of disaster – hence the zero probability of a hike vs a 60% probability of a cut by August next year. I think a figure that shows at least no acceleration in inflation would allow the MPC to move to a more dovish bias, as BoE Gov. Carney has hinted at, and would therefore be negative for sterling.

But the sad fact is that the fate of GBP is more in the hands of the feckless British government and the soon-to-be-elected Conservative Party leader, who automatically becomes Prime Minister. This is a race between Tweedledum and Tweedledummer, at least insofar as their unrealistic Brexit policies are concerned. Actually, one of the candidates, Jeremy Hunt, seems to have an OK CV and decent reputation, but the other fellow, Boorish Johnson (no, that’s not a typo) has a reputation as a buffon. I have to say I have never read anything good about him except that he’s supposed to be rather witty, if you’re looking for someone to invite to a dinner party. In particular his views on Brexit seem to be a combination of wishful thinking, willful ignorance and out-and-out lies. In other words, he’s a cutting-edge politician for this day and age. Voting for the Party leader began on July 6th among the Conservative Party’s 160,000 members. The final deadline for voting is next Sunday the 21st. The winner is expected to be announced on July 23th, and PM May will tender her resignation on the 24th. Then we will sing “God Save the Queen” in earnest, because she will certainly need saving. Japan has its trade figures out on Thursday and the national CPI on Friday. I’m not sure how much interest the national CPI is to traders nowadays since the Tokyo CPI for the relevant month comes out three weeks earlier. Nonetheless, this is the one that the Bank of Japan is (presumeably) looking at, so it’s the one that matters for policy makers. As usual, it’s expected to show little change in the inflation situation – the headline and the “core-core” (ex fresh foods and energy) rates of inflation are expected to remain unchanged, while the “Japan-style core” (excluding fresh foods only) is expected to slow negligibly. Given that the Tokyo CPI for June rose at the same pace as in May too, this should come as no surprise. JPY neutral

As for the Japan Upper House election, PM Abe’s coalition is likely to win a solid majority. Polls suggest that his Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) and its coalition partner Komeito would win more than 63 seats and could win as many as 77. Either would be a majority of the 124 seats being contested. Attention will focus on whether Abe and other allies win 85 seats. That would give them a two-thirds majority, which would enable them to achieve Abe’s dream of gutting the pacifist Constitution and enabling Japan to undertake aggressive warfare. One interesting point in an otherwise routine election: Iehiro Tokugawa, the heir to the main Tokugawa house, is running as a candidate for the Constitutional Democratic Party of Japan (CDP), the main opposition party. The Tokugawa family used to rule Japan until 1869, when they were deposed and the emperor “restored” as ruler of the country. Iehiro is the 19th in line and would now be Shogun if things had turned out differently. It’s quite appropriate that Mr. Tokugawa is opposing the nationalists (PM Abe et. al.) and promoting a more international policy with a more liberal attitude, just as his ancestors did. He’s not just a celebrity candidate; he’s an author and translator and has a PhD in Economics from University of Michigan, one of the best economic PhD courses in the US. His wife is Vietnamese, which is also unusual for a Japanese politician.
The Rand ceded ground to a stabilising Dollar and Pound Friday but the outlook for the currency going forward has now been dented by a South African Reserve Bank (SARB) interest rate cut and the prospect of further easing to come, according to TD Securities. 

South Africa's Rand was on its back foot Friday as the Dollar and other developed world currencies recovered their poise following the latest commentary on the U.S. interest rate outlook by the Federal Reserve (Fed) but it's SARB monetary policy that's hurt the outlook for Rand exchange rates. 

The South African Reserve Bank cut its interest rate by 25 basis points to 6.5% Thursday and signalled that no further cuts are likely in the near future if its expectations for the domestic and international economies are born out in the coming months. That prompted a rise in the Rand, which is rare for any currency following a rate cut.

"The decision has left the rand stronger as the market was priced for nearly 50bps of easing ahead of the SARB announcement. This is in line with our prior expectations. However, ZAR looks a little too rich vs our forecasts now," says Cristian Maggio, head of emerging market strategy at TD Securities. 
TD forecasts the USD/ZAR rate will climb to 14.35 by the end of September, which implies a fall in the Rand from Friday's levels, and that the Pound-to-Rand rate will rise to 18.53 from 17.41 Friday. By year-end the bank sees USD/ZAR back at 13.95 with the Pound-to-Rand rate dropping back to 18.13. However, the Toronto-headquartered lender is questioning whether the Rand could achieve such a performance following Thursday's rate cut, which risks eating away at the 'fundamental' value of the currency.

Governor Lesetja Kganyago says the SARB's forecast model had indicated that only one interest rate cut is necessary before the end of 2019, which all but rules out the additional cuts that financial markets have been hoping to see. 

Changes in interest rates are normally only made in response to movements in inflation, which is sensitive to growth, but impact currencies because of the push and pull influence they have over capital flows. Capital flows tend to move in the direction of the most advantageous or improving returns, with a threat of lower rates normally seeing investors driven out of and deterred away from a currency. Rising rates have the opposite effect.

The SARB said Thursday that risks to the inflation outlook are "balanced" because the domestic economy is weak and wage growth is low, although the growth and inflation outlook could turn higher if advanced economies gather steam while prices could rise if the Rand weakens in response to market concerns over the nation's credit rating. 
"We believe the recent strength of emerging market currencies will be overshadowed in the medium term by a gloomier world economic outlook, a resurfacing US China trade war and resulting negative sentiment towards emerging markets," says Michael Every, a strategist at Rabobank. 

TD and Rabobank are not alone in having doubts about the outlook for the Rand because analysts at Morgan Stanley cut their rating for the currency from "outperform" to "neutral", citing a strong recent performance and concerns over the outlook for the public finances. 

"Interestingly this week, both KRW and ZAR appreciated following rate cuts from their local central bank," says Hans Redeker, head of FX strategy at Morgan Stanley. "The dovish Fed opened the door for high-yielding EM currencies to outperform. However, the fiscal trajectory of South Africa is looking more worrisome, and although we think FX is more attractive than local bonds, we are no longer sure ZAR can outperform. We switch ZAR back to neutral after a strong run in the past month." 

South Africa's government is under pressure from Moody's to reduce its budget deficit and national debt pile, or face losing its 'investment grade' credit rating. Losing the Moody's rating would risk driving the Rand into the ground.
A Moody's cut would see many international investors, particularly those who benchmark to the Citi World Government Bond index, automatically forced into selling their government bonds which would then see investors seek to swap capital back into their domestic currencies.

"The growth recovery in South Africa has been disappointing, while the scale of the reform challenges facing the South African government is considerable," Redeker says. "Our economics team sees a significantly wider fiscal deficit relative to that forecast by the South African Treasury and also Moody's, and a very subdued growth forecast of 0.4% in 2019 and just 1.3% in 2020."

South Africa had a rough start to the year that saw the economy contract in the first quarter. The SARB downgraded its forecast for 2019 GDP growth Thursday but still projects a pick-up in 2020 and beyond. Nonetheless, this weak economic performance risks increasing government spending and the debt-to-GDP ratio, which would be negative for the outlook on the credit rating. 

Morgan Stanley has cut its forecasts for the Rand as result of concerns about the rating. It now projects a USD/ZAR rate of 13.6 at the end of September, down from 14.0, but has raised its year-end target from 13.2 to 14.2. The Pound-to-Rand rate is expected to fall to 16.87 by the end of September before rising to 18.03 by year-end.
  The GBP/USD exchange rate is trading at around 1.2573 at the start of the new week after rising 0.4% from the previous week. Studies of the charts suggest the pair could be reversing and might go higher over the next five days.

The 4-hour chart - which is used to assess the trend over the short-term, which means the next 5 days - shows the pair was in a downtrend but then bottomed at the July 9 lows and started rising strongly. Momentum is strong and whilst it is still a little early to say for sure, this could be the beginning of a fresh new uptrend.
Note how the RSI momentum indicator in the lower pane has risen sharply in tandem with the bounce. It is now at the same level it was at when the exchange rate was much higher in the 1.27s, in June. This suggests upside momentum is especially strong and supports the possibility that a new uptrend could be beginning.

The pair already looks a little overstretched and may pullback initially, perhaps falling back down to 1.2550, however, after that it could very well recover and go higher.

A break above the 1.2595 July highs would provide confirmation of an extension of the bounce up to a target at the trendline at 1.2625.

The trendline is likely to pose a major obstacle to further upside and the exchange rate is likely to pause or pull-back at that level.

The daily chart shows how the pair is in an overall downtrend which has fallen to the January lows and bounced.
The bounce lead to three up days in a row (circled) and the special configuration of these days - the fact the first and third are long and green and the day in between is smaller - suggests a higher than average chance that the trend higher could continue.

Yet at the same time, the established trend is down and remains intact for now, thus the pull of the ‘tide’ is bearish.

The two conflicting signals make us cautious of making an outright directional call.

The conflicting signals suggest the pair may go sideways for a while.

Yet, a break below the January lows would provide confirmation the downtrend was extending down to a target at 1.2300.

Likewise, a break higher, especially if it is above the trendline at 1.2625, would confirm a reversal up to a target at 1.2700 and the 50-day moving average (MA).

The daily chart is used to provide an indication of the medium-term outlook which includes the next week to a month ahead.

The weekly chart meanwhile is showing no clearly definable trend and indicates the pair could meander sideways between the Jan lows and the March highs indefinitely.

A break higher to 1.2700 over the medium-term, however, could see gains extend to around 1.2900 in the long-term at the level of the major trendline.
After the pair is likely to find it difficult to break clearly above the trendline from a technical perspective and may consolidate underneath it for a while.

Likewise, a break below the January lows would probably confirm a bearish extension down to a target at 1.1915-1.1995 and the key 2016 lows.

The weekly chart is used to give an idea of the longer-term outlook, which includes the next few months.
The main release for the U.S. Dollar in the coming week is retail sales in June. The data is important because consumer spending remains the main contributor of growth in the U.S.

The Dollar has been under pressure recently due to expectations that the Federal Reserve is preparing to cut interest rates as a pre-emptive ‘insurance’ strike against future economic weakness.

An interest rate cut is likely to weigh on the Dollar since lower interest rates attract less net capital inflows from foreign investors looking for somewhere to park their money.

Only an extremely strong retail sales result would even begin to reverse expectations the Fed is getting ready to cut interest rates, and that seems unlikely according to analysts who are more biased to expecting a slowdown, albeit a modest one.

“In America, retail sales on Tuesday will provide the last piece of evidence on the consumer, before the Fed’s two-week ‘quiet period’ begins ahead of the July 31 rate decision. Forecasts suggest that retail sales slowed on a monthly basis in June, but remained in positive territory for a fourth straight month, which would be encouraging in itself.”

The data is out on Tuesday at 13.30 BST and is expected to show a 0.2% rise both in the core and the broader metric.

Other key data for the U.S. in the coming week is Michigan Sentiment indicator which is forecast to show a slight uptick to 98.5 from 98.2 in July when it is released on Friday at 15.00; and housing data which is forecast to show a slight fall in housing starts to 1.262m from 1.269m previously when it is released on Wednesday at 13.30.
The winner of the Conservative leadership election is not scheduled to be announced until July 22, so the Pound will probably be less affected by Brexit news in the week ahead and attention may shift to hard data instead.

On that front, there are three major releases, including labour market data out on Tuesday, inflation on Wednesday and retail sales on Thursday.

UK data has deteriorated recently, especially the PMI survey data which is seen as a reliable leading indicator of harder economic data and growth. Having said that, May GDP surprised to the upside, coming out at 0.2% when analysts had anticipated a 0.1% rise.

The last speech from Mark Carney, the governor of the Bank of England (BOE), was less optimistic and suggested the BOE was finally joining the rest of the ‘pack’ of central banks in adopting a preference for lower interest rates, mainly due to fears about global growth. This marked a turnaround from the previous bias of the BOE to raising rates.

On Tuesday, UK labour market data is forecast to show the unemployment rate still at 3.8%, another 22.9k jobs added to the economy and average wages rising by 3.1% in June, when it is released at 9.30 BST.

The data is at a fairly strong starting point so only an unexpected decline would dent Sterling - anything within expectations or higher would probably keep the currency supported.

Keep an eye on wage dynamics in particular as the rule-of-thumb in economics is that rising wages tend to lead to higher inflation, which prompts the central bank to raise interest rates to keep a lid on prices. And, a side effect of higher interest rates is a stronger currency.
The UK's wage dynamic has been a source of support for Sterling over recent months, with wages now easily oustripping the inflation rate which has in turn prompted expectations for a Bank of England interest rate rise in coming months.

The risk is that wage increases start fading in strength, which deprives the under-pressure Pound of one of its last remaining elements of support.

Inflation data out on Wednesday at 09:30 B.S.T. will be another key release to watch for Sterling, with a beat on expectations likely to prove supportive and a weaker-than-forecast figure likely to weigh.

Markets are looking for annualised CPI to read at 2.0%, bang on the Bank of England's mandated target.USD/JPY: Retail trader data shows 68.6% of traders are net-long with the ratio of traders long to short at 2.19 to 1. In fact, traders have remained net-long since May 03 when USD/JPY traded near 111.913; price has moved 3.7% lower since then. The number of traders net-long is 6.1% lower than yesterday and 2.5% lower from last week, while the number of traders net-short is 15.5% lower than yesterday and 10.1% lower from last week.

To gain more insight in how we use sentiment to supplement a strategy, join us for one of our weekly webinars on how to “Identify Trends with Sentiment”:USD/JPY: SENTIMENT SUGGESTS PRICES MAY CONTINUE TO FALL
We typically take a contrarian view to crowd sentiment, and the fact traders are net-long suggests USD/JPY prices may continue to fall. Traders are further net-long than yesterday and last week, and the combination of current sentiment and recent changes gives us a stronger USD/JPY-bearish contrarian trading bias.
It was a big week for the US dollar as bulls returned with gusto. Last week provided a quick flicker of weakness around some comments from NY Fed President, John Williams. Those remarks were walked back shortly after by the NY Fed, and the US Dollar began to bounce in response. That bounce continued through this week’s trade save for small blip in the radar that developed around Thursday’s ECB rate decision. At this point, the US Dollar is trading at fresh seven-week-highs as the currency has continued to rally ahead of next week’s widely-expected rate cut.

Along those lines, from last week’s FX Setups the two long-USD setups remain attractive while the two short-side Dollar setups were quickly stopped out. In EUR/USD, a break below the higher-lows that had held for the prior month took out the bullish backdrop; while AUD/USD pushing below the .7000 big figure quickly negated that bullish potential and the pair just continued to fall through the rest of the week.

For next week, the US Dollar will likely remain on the move. The Fed is widely-expected to cut rates for the first time in a decade on Wednesday but as has become the norm, the importance is with the details. Is the Fed considering more cuts later this year? Or of recent, grumblings have even started around more QE at some point if the situation calls for it. The big matter of importance is just how dovish might the FOMC be? At this point, a large amount of divergence remains between market expectations for rates and the FOMC projections that were provided at the June rate decision. As discussed this morning, rates markets are showing a 53.5% probability of at least three cuts by the end of the year. The Fed, at this point, has merely pointed to one. Below I look at two setups on either side of the US Dollar ahead of next week’s FOMC-fueled volatility.




Month-on-month inflation for June is forecast to show price increases of 0.3%.

The next most important release is retail sales data which is expected to show a -0.3% decline in June compared to the month before when it is released at 9.30 on Thursday.

Retail sales have been falling recently and survey data for June from the British Retail Consortium (BRC) suggests the decline will probably continue.

“Recent confidence surveys suggest the underlying trend in the retail sector remains soft, and the consensus expects another decline, of 0.3% month-over-month in June,” says Wells Fargo in a preview note.

A bigger-than-expected decline would stoke UK slowdown fears and weigh on the Pound.At the end of trading on Fri, 26 Jul 2019 12:00:01 GMTUSD made major gains on the JPY with regards to  this is a result of monetary policy changes.At the conclusion of trading on Mon, 29 Jul 2019 12:00:02 GMT the EUR has had major loses against the JPY. At the conclusion of trading on Mon, 29 Jul 2019 12:00:02 GMT USD made major gains on the NOK. At the conclusion of trading on Mon, 29 Jul 2019 12:00:02 GMT USD made major gains on the NOK. At the end of trading on Mon, 29 Jul 2019 12:00:02 GMT EUR made major gains on the AUD. Following the Mon, 29 Jul 2019 12:00:02 GMT USD made major gains on the JPY. At the conclusion of trading on Mon, 29 Jul 2019 12:00:02 GMT EUR made major gains on the AUD.

It’s been a rough start to the week for the British Pound as the currency has been slammed-lower to start this week’s trade. While much of the economic world’s attention is focused squarely on Washington DC for the Wednesday FOMC rate decision, threats of No-Deal Brexit have pushed GBP/USD to its lowest spot rate since March of 2017. As discussed over the past two weeks, GBPUSD has been one of the more attractive long-USD scenarios. As the Greenback has continued to gain, bearish prognostications around the Pound have helped GBP/USD to remain aggressively-offered over the past month.
Less than 24 hours after that Federal Reserve rate decision and another item of importance comes up on the economic calendar for the British Pound, and that’s the Super Thursday rate decision. This is when the Bank of England will offer updated projections and a press conference to go along with the rate decision itself and this is often where markets can gain some insight to project potential policy action from the bank. Of note, this will be the first BoE rate decision since the Boris Johnson win, so it’ll be interesting to hear the bank’s take on what might need to happen in the event that No-Deal Brexit continues as a potential outcome. Likely, we will hear the BoE take on a very dovish tone.

On a longer-term basis, this can be a tough area to chase that recent bearish breakout. From the weekly chart, traders can zoom out to see a relative lack of price action in the current area and nothing since April of 2017 when prices rose above 1.2500 and didn’t look back, until a couple of weeks ago, that is.
At this point, traders are left with a couple of options to work with the short-side of this theme. Either chase the already well-developed breakout; or wait for a pullback to some element of resistance that could be used for stop placement. The former of those approaches appears imprudent given how stretched the bearish theme already is; but below, I look into two areas of possible lower-high resistance that could re-open the door for bearish exposure in the pair ahead of Wednesday’s FOMC rate decision.

Current support appears to be showing around the 1.2250 psychological level, and prior support around 1.2400 could be of interest for lower-high resistance. The quandary with that latter level is that it would require a 130+ pip bounce to come into play, and one must ask in that scenario if the bearish backdrop on the pair remains as attractive. A bit closer is another potential zone of interest around 1.2340. This area had a quick support/resistance check earlier today and may soon become usable.
For those that’d like to fade this recent round of GBP-weakness, EUR/GBP could remain attractive. The cross-pair has taken advantage of this recent rush of Sterling weakness to catapult up to a zone of resistance that’s already twice-turned around bullish advances in the pair over the past year. This takes place around the 23.6% Fibonacci retracement of the April-August 2017 bullish run. This scenario would also have the luxury of picking on a potentially-weak Euro with the prospect of looser policy and, perhaps even future QE outlays from the European Central Bank.
Forex risk appetite will likely turn to US-China trade war developments early next week with top US officials scheduled to travel to China in hopes of reviving trade talks between the two countries. US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer are set to discuss trade policy with China’s Vice Premier Liu He on Tuesday and will be the first face-to-face meeting between trade negotiators since President Trump and President Xi met at the G20 Summit nearly a month ago.

Aside from US-China trade war discussions between Mnuchin, Lighthizer and He next week, China Manufacturing PMI and Services PMI data could shed light on the Chinese economy. China’s manufacturing sector has been running in contraction territory with a reading under 50.0 for the last 6 out of 7 months as tariffs and slowing global GDP growth cripple the industry. The July 2019 China manufacturing PMI is expected to cross the wires on Wednesday at 1:00 GMT with a reading of 49.6 according to Bloomberg and up from the 49.3 reading in June.

Next week’s economic calendar is jam-packed with event risk and Wednesday’s release of Eurozone GDP and CPI data at 9:00 GMT is certainly among the top 5 forex trading events. The closely watched economic indicators will follow last week’s July ECB meeting where central bank President Mario Draghi paved the road to ease monetary policy in the near future.

Although Draghi mentioned that a rate cut was not discussed among the ECB Governing Council’s most recent meeting, he did state that “a significant degree of monetary stimulus continues to be necessary for financial conditions to remain very favorable and support the euro area expansion, the ongoing build-up of domestic price pressures and headline inflation developments over the medium term.”
Persistent uncertainty surrounding the US-China trade war, mixed US economic data and ambiguous Fed-speak have all provoked significant volatility in Fed rate cut bets and consequently the US Dollar. Forex traders could be provided clarity on Wednesday, however, with the Federal Reserve slated to publish its latest monetary policy statement at 18:00 GMT.

While rate traders have priced the probability of a rate cut as a near-certainty according to overnight swaps, speculation over the size of the anticipated rate cut will likely linger into the FOMC’s interest rate decision.

The sharp improvement in US economic data over recent weeks has seen little impact on lofty rate cutbets – driven largely by slowing global GDP growth and ongoing trade policy uncertainty – which could position the US Dollar for major upside if the Fed refuses to capitulate.
With PM Boris Johnson officially at the helm of British Parliament, the drums for no-deal Brexit are beating louder across the UK. This has put spot GBPUSD under a considerable amount of pressure with potential for further weakness which could be sparked by the August BOE meeting slated for next Thursday at 11:00 GMT.

The Bank of England has been shackled to a cautious monetary policy normalization approach considering the vast amount of risk and uncertainty surround Brexit. Although, the hawkish tilt by the UK’s central bank has shifted to a more neutral bias recently and monetary policy outlook could turn even less optimistic at the upcoming August BOE meeting. Aside from forward rate guidance, the BOE will also provide markets with its quarterly inflation report.
Despite the serious risk faced by spot EURUSD early next week surrounding Q2 Eurozone GDP and the July Fed meeting on deck for Wednesday, the July US jobs report slated for Friday at 12:30 GMT should not be overlooked. Markets should expect the headline change in nonfarm payrolls figure for July to come in at 169K additions according to Bloomberg’s economist survey. This compares to 224K additions in June and 72K added jobs in May.

Judging by the Atlanta Fed Jobs Calculator, the US economy needs to add 108.5K jobs per month over the next year in order to maintain the unemployment rate (U3) at 3.7% over that time horizon. Another red-hot US jobs report could put the Federal Reserve’s anticipated dovish monetary policy shift into question and solidify the expected July FOMC rate cut as a one-and-done ‘insurance cut.’ If true, a sharp repricing of lofty Fed rate cut bets could be expected to push spot EURUSD on the path toward printing fresh year-to-date lows.
Looking at the daily chart we notice on Friday Copper slipped to the lower trading zone $5,911 - $5,975. Hence, the metal currently eyes a test of the low end of this zone, contingent on remaining below the high end. Further close below the low end of this zone could send the price towards $5,856. Although, the weekly support level underlined on the chart (zoomed in) needs to be considered.

On the flip-side, a close above the high end means a return to the old trading zone and opens the door to rally towards $6,030. However, the daily resistance underscored on the chart (zoomed in) Should be watched closely. See the chart to know more about the higher trading zone in a further bullish scenario.
Looking at the four-hour chart, we notice on Friday Copper closed below the head and shoulders sloping to the upside, since then the price remained below this level. If Copper continues trading below $5,971 this suggests the price may be on its way for a test of the July 9 low at $5,792.

Meanwhile, a break below the July 17 low $5,928 could press the price towards $5,879 contingent on clearing the low end of the aforementioned trading zone (see the chart).

On the other hand, a break above $6,008 may push the price towards the high end of the right shoulder. Although, the weekly level marked on the chart should be kept in focus. See the chart to know more about the next key resistance levels if the rally continues above the right shoulder.
This should be a big week for Gold prices, one way or the other. This Wednesday’s FOMC rate decision looms large as a number of risk trends are waiting to see just how dovish the Federal Reserve might be. A 25 basis point cut has long been expected at this meeting, and this would mark the bank’s first move towards looser policy since the Financial Collapse more than ten years ago. But the backdrop with which this move takes place has a few items of abnormality: This will be the first rate move since Jerome Powell made every meeting live coming into this year. Markets have also diverged rather far from the Fed’s most recent dot plot matrix concerning rate moves in the rest of the year. The Fed has so far said that they expect one cut while markets are pricing in three or more going out to December.

This is key for Gold prices as a more-dovish stance at the Fed can open the door for fresh six-year-highs in the yellow metal. The big question is whether the Fed will highlight future softening in the rest of this year or frame Wednesday’s rate move as a ‘one and done’ after overtightening last year. Should the latter take place, pressure can remain on the bid of the US Dollar and this could keep Gold prices on their back foot until the bank flips to a move-dovish stance later in the year.

As an illustration of this theme, the scenario from a couple of weeks ago remains key: After an off-hand comment from NY Fed President John Williams was widely-inferred to mean that the Fed was looking at a 50 basis point cut, Gold prices flew up to fresh six-year-highs as the US Dollar dropped aggressively. But – when that comment was walked-back, Gold prices pulled back to support and have largely remained around this area ever since. The same 1415 area, taken from the 14.4% Fibonacci retracement of the June breakout, has come back in to help hold the lows similar to what happened two weeks ago.
Taking a step back on the Gold chart and the current area of resistance is imposing. This area, drawn from the August 2013 swing-high down to the 50% marker of the 2012-2015 major move came into play more than a month ago. Since then – it’s held as resistance in each week since, including a lower-high from last week after prices had softened when the NY Fed walked back Williams’ comments.

At this point, the bullish side of Gold prices looks to be fairly-aligned with just how dovish the Fed might be on Wednesday. If the bank forecasts future softening or keeps the door open for even lower rates later in the year, the bid in Gold will likely see some action. If the bank does mention the possibility of QE, then Gold prices can really fly-higher and this is when projections above 1500 come back into play. Otherwise, if the Fed does pitch this rate cut as a ‘one and done’ type of deal in order to moderate rates after last year’s overtightening, then Gold prices may scale back to a deeper support area on the chart. This can keep focus on areas such as 1375, which was the 2016 swing-high that has yet to be tested for support since the June breakout. A bit-deeper, another area of interest exists around 1357.50, which was the 2017 swing-highs that later come into help cauterize 2018 resistance.
It’s been a rough start to the week for the British Pound as the currency has been slammed-lower to start this week’s trade. While much of the economic world’s attention is focused squarely on Washington DC for the Wednesday FOMC rate decision, threats of No-Deal Brexit have pushed GBP/USD to its lowest spot rate since March of 2017. As discussed over the past two weeks, GBPUSD has been one of the more attractive long-USD scenarios. As the Greenback has continued to gain, bearish prognostications around the Pound have helped GBP/USD to remain aggressively-offered over the past month.
Less than 24 hours after that Federal Reserve rate decision and another item of importance comes up on the economic calendar for the British Pound, and that’s the Super Thursday rate decision. This is when the Bank of England will offer updated projections and a press conference to go along with the rate decision itself and this is often where markets can gain some insight to project potential policy action from the bank. Of note, this will be the first BoE rate decision since the Boris Johnson win, so it’ll be interesting to hear the bank’s take on what might need to happen in the event that No-Deal Brexit continues as a potential outcome. Likely, we will hear the BoE take on a very dovish tone.

On a longer-term basis, this can be a tough area to chase that recent bearish breakout. From the weekly chart, traders can zoom out to see a relative lack of price action in the current area and nothing since April of 2017 when prices rose above 1.2500 and didn’t look back, until a couple of weeks ago, that is.
At this point, traders are left with a couple of options to work with the short-side of this theme. Either chase the already well-developed breakout; or wait for a pullback to some element of resistance that could be used for stop placement. The former of those approaches appears imprudent given how stretched the bearish theme already is; but below, I look into two areas of possible lower-high resistance that could re-open the door for bearish exposure in the pair ahead of Wednesday’s FOMC rate decision.

Current support appears to be showing around the 1.2250 psychological level, and prior support around 1.2400 could be of interest for lower-high resistance. The quandary with that latter level is that it would require a 130+ pip bounce to come into play, and one must ask in that scenario if the bearish backdrop on the pair remains as attractive. A bit closer is another potential zone of interest around 1.2340. This area had a quick support/resistance check earlier today and may soon become usable.
For those that’d like to fade this recent round of GBP-weakness, EUR/GBP could remain attractive. The cross-pair has taken advantage of this recent rush of Sterling weakness to catapult up to a zone of resistance that’s already twice-turned around bullish advances in the pair over the past year. This takes place around the 23.6% Fibonacci retracement of the April-August 2017 bullish run. This scenario would also have the luxury of picking on a potentially-weak Euro with the prospect of looser policy and, perhaps even future QE outlays from the European Central Bank.
The Euro turned volatile but failed to find directional conviction following the ECB rate decision and commentary by ECB President Mario Draghi. While the central bank highlighted that the outlook is getting “worse and worse” – particularly in manufacturing data – there were also internal disagreements over the degree of stimulus needed. The ECB did allude to examining the possibility of “new asset buying” i.e. QE.

Draghi stated that recessionary risks remain “pretty low”, though more data has been showing that equity markets may be due for a correction. Overnight index swaps are pricing in an 85% probability of a cut by the September meeting. Christine Lagarde will be taking over Draghi’s post at the end of October and is expected to continue along the same lines as her predecessor in an effort to boost regional activity and apathetic CPI.

If US GDP data surprises lower or higher, the US Dollar may rise. If the report shows growth beating forecasts, USD may experience greater capital inflow as markets cool their dovish expectations. When the IMF published its updated world economic outlook – which carried gloomy undertones – overnight index swaps for Fed rate cut bets edged modestly higher – as did the US Dollar. We may see a similar reaction in financial markets if US GDP data undershoots forecasts and fuels risk aversion.

The US Dollar outperformed against most of its major counterparts on Friday, propelled by better-than-expected second quarter US GDP data. GDP clocked in at 2.1% q/q versus 1.8% anticipated and from 3.1% prior. Personal consumption, which accounts for the vast majority of growth, rose 4.3% versus 4.0% expected and from 1.1% in the first quarter.

Local government bond yields rallied on the data and by the end of Friday, odds of a third Fed rate cut by year-end weakened. Yet, this was not enough to sour sentiment ahead of this week’s monetary policy announcement. The S&P 500 ended the day about 0.75% to the upside, particularly propelled by communication services.

This was thanks to gains in Alphabet (+10.45%) and Twitter (+8.92%) shares after solid earnings reports. Alphabet Inc., the parent company of Google, saw sales estimates beat expectations as their stock rose by the most since 2015. Meanwhile, Twitter saw better-than-expected revenue that caused their stock to increase by the most since April.

USD gains undermined the Australian and New Zealand Dollars, which were trading lower after a dose of risk aversion during Friday’s APAC session. The British Pound also underperformed on Brexit woes. Newly appointed UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson told French President Emmanuel Macron that the Irish backstop, a sticking point in withdrawal negotiations, “must be removed” from the divorce deal.

A lack of critical economic event risk at the beginning of a loaded week places the focus for FX on risk trends. We may saw Asia Pacific equities follow Wall Street higher which would translate into a cautiously optimistic mood for financial markets. This may end up boding ill for the anti-risk Japanese Yen as the US Dollar extends its advance.
Last week, the US Dollar accelerated its long-term uptrend when comparing it to an equally-weighted basket of its top 4 liquid counterparts (EUR, JPY, GBP, AUD). Near-term resistance was taken out as prices stopped short of the April 2017 high. Closing above this opens the door to perhaps testing March 2017 highs given technical confirmation.
Follow breaking news on global financial markets with our real-time news feed, which is updated throughout the day. You can access forex news live and read about the latest trends affecting commodities, indices and more.
EUR/USD: Retail trader data shows 71.9% of traders are net-long with the ratio of traders long to short at 2.56 to 1. In fact, traders have remained net-long since Jul 01 when EUR/USD traded near 1.13678; price has moved 2.0% lower since then. The number of traders net-long is 8.7% higher than yesterday and 9.2% higher from last week, while the number of traders net-short is 9.6% lower than yesterday and 15.3% lower from last week.

To gain more insight in how we use sentiment to supplement a strategy, join us for one of our weekly webinars on how to “Identify Trends with Sentiment”:
We typically take a contrarian view to crowd sentiment, and the fact traders are net-long suggests EUR/USD prices may continue to fall. Traders are further net-long than yesterday and last week, and the combination of current sentiment and recent changes gives us a stronger EUR/USD-bearish contrarian trading bias.
On the long side of the US Dollar, I came into this week looking at the British Pound in an attempt to further fade-out last week’s strength. As USD-weakness priced-in around those Williams’ comments last week, GBP/USD flexed up to the 1.2550 level. Prices had started to decline again ahead of last week’s close, so I wanted to look for a bounce into a key zone of potential resistance to open the door for short-side setups. That zone runs from 1.2500-1.2523, and this filled-in on Wednesday of this week ahead of a break down to fresh two-year-lows.

At this point, selling at current levels can be a challenge as price action remain very near those two-month-lows; but on the long side of the US Dollar, this remains as an attractive venue, and a pullback to resistance at prior support can re-open the door for bearish plays. The area of focus that appears most attractive for that scenario right now comes-in around the 1.2442-1.2450 zone that had provided support earlier in July. This can open the possibility of stops above this week’s high coupled with targets back at the 1.2400 level; after which break-even stop moves could be investigated along with deeper profit targets looking for a continued break-down to new two-year-lows.
If USD-weakness shows up next week, the short-side of USD/JPY could quickly become attractive again. The pair is currently re-testing a zone of resistance that had come into play to help set the June swing-highs, and a hold of this zone through the Monday open keeps the door open for short-side swing setups with stops investigated above the July high around 109.00. Nearby is bearish target potential around 108.00-108.25, after which 107.50 becomes of interest. After that, the 107 level may come into play but that theme would likely need to be coupled with either a really weak US Dollar or a really strong gust of risk aversion.
It was a strong week in USD/CHF as Dollar-strength came back with aggression. The pair made a fast move towards the parity handle, slowing down when re-testing resistance from earlier this month around .9940-.9950. If this zone can hold through Monday trade, the door remains open for short-side swing potential. Stop placement could be investigated at either .9965 (aggressive) or above the parity handle (more conservative). The luxury of that tighter stop could be initial targets at the Fibonacci level around .9902 at which point break-even stop moves could be investigated. Beyond that, .9850 and .9800 remain of interest for short-side target potential.

Back on the long side of the US Dollar and USD/CAD remains of interest. I started looking at bullish scenarios in USD/CAD last week as a falling wedge formation had formed. Key for that theme was the fact that bears appeared very reticent to re-test the 1.3000 handle and, sure enough, even as USD-weakness was pumping in around those comments from John Williams, USD/CAD merely postured ten pips away from the psychological level.

This week saw USD strength come back and two of the three targets looked at coming into this week have been touched. As discussed in that piece, additional target potential remains around the 1.3250-1.3300 zone, but this will likely need an assist from a less-dovish FOMC outlay than what many are looking for.

A re-test of support from 1.3132-1.3150 can re-open the door for bullish trend strategies, with stop placement investigated below the 1.3110 low. Targets can be directed towards 1.3200, followed by that ‘big picture’ zone of possible resistance around prior support of 1.3250-1.3300.
Spot USDMXN looks set to resume its bullish ascent as fundamental themes appear likely to tilt back in favor of the US Dollar. The Mexican Peso has failed to advance against the US Dollar with conviction despite broad weakness in the greenback as of late – largely driven by dovish Fed expectations. This could be attributable to Mexico’s rapidly declining economy with outlook turning increasingly pessimistic. Most prominently, Mexico GDP contracted back in Q1 and the country’s GDP growth estimates continue to receive downward revisions.

In fact, Mexico’s central bank Banxico cut its 2019 GDP forecast back in May while earlier this week the IMF lowered its own GDP growth forecast for 2019 Mexico GDP growth a staggering 0.7% with the economy now expected to grow less than 1% this year. Also, with the abrupt resignation of Mexico’s Finance Minister Carlos Urzua, another layer of uncertainty is thrown into the mix. As such, bullish prospects for the Mexican Peso continue to dissipate – even in spite of the USMCA trade agreement’s probable ratification – as Mexico’s discouraging economic and political landscape look to weigh negatively on its currency.

Furthermore, speculation continues to grow that Banxico will cut interest rates aggressively later this year to help support its stumbling economy while a potential credit downgrade looms with Pemex – Mexico’s state-owned petroleum company – in dire conditions.

Shifting to the other half of the equation, the US Dollar could record an episode of resurgence if the Federal Reserve provides the market with upbeat outlook following the central bank’s first rate cut in over a decade likely coming at the July FOMC meeting. The upcoming Q2 US GDP report could serve as a bellwether to whether or not the Fed will ease monetary policy further or if it will take a more hawkish stance than the overzealous dovish bets currently priced by markets.

Also, the possibility that that the long-awaiting USMCA deal fails to garner legislative backing cannot be discounted and poses more of a threat to the Mexican Peso than it does the US Dollar. Additionally, there is an eminent risk that US President Trump threatens to raise tariffs on Mexico to push his political agenda.
The technical outlook for spot USDMXN appears quite attractive as well. Turning to the charts, technical support provided by the bullish trendline dating back to late 2015 looks to provide the currency pair with a strong degree of buoyancy. At the same time, spot USDMXN downside momentum has waned with the RSI showing potential of trending higher. That said, the 38.2% Fibonacci retracement of the currency pair’s 2017 trading range could serve as a headwind for spot USDMXN bulls around the 19.200 level.
Honing in on a closer time frame, support from the bullish trendline becomes more evident with spot USDMXN shown holding the series of higher lows back in April and again earlier this month. Also, it could be constructive for spot USDMXN price action to fill the conspicuous gap lower printed early June. While holding the 19.000 handle will likely be key for bullish conviction to remain intact, the swing low in January 2019 near 18.870 could serve as a more appropriate stop loss for USDMXN longs. Looking back upward, the area around 19.475 could be a possible topside target.
Last week, EURGBP posted a reversal candle on the weekly time-frame at resistance arriving by way of a pair of varying angled trend-lines and highs created last year. Furthering along a weakening technical backdrop was the breaking of the channel extending higher from late May until late last week.

And adding yet another layer to the short set-up is the head-and-shoulders (H&S) pattern very near triggering this morning. A 4-hr closing candlestick below 8954 is seen as confirmation of the pattern. The height of the H&S points to a measured move target of around 8860, however; the type of grinding channel that was formed from late May are often wiped out once the structure is broken. This implies a potential move down to around the 8800-mark.

Along the way towards the eventual target, support I’m watching comes in around 8920 and 8872. Should the trade trigger (doing so right now), the invalidation point is above the right shoulder high of 9005.

Trading Forecasts and Educational Guides for traders of all experience levels can be found on the DailyFX Trading Guides page.
Whether you are a new or experienced trader, we have several resources available to help you; indicator for tracking trader sentiment, quarterly trading forecasts, analytical and educational webinars held daily, trading guides to help you improve trading performance, and one specifically for those who are new to forex.
EURUSD appears to be stuck in a narrow range ahead of the European Central Bank (ECB) meeting on July 25, but the lack of momentum to test the monthly-low (1.1193) may keep the exchange rate afloat as it breaks out of the downward trend from earlier this year.
It seems as though the ECB will continue to push monetary policy into unchartered territory as the central bank prepares to launch another round of Targeted Long-Term Refinance Operations (TLTRO) in September, and the Governing Council may show a greater willingness to implement a negative interest rate policy (NIRP) for the Main Refinance Rate, its flagship benchmark for borrowing costs, as the account of the June meeting insists that “the Governing Council needed to be ready and prepared to ease the monetary policy stance further by adjusting all of its instruments, as appropriate, to achieve its price stability objective.”

It remains to be seen if the ECB will make a major announcement as officials argue “that the risk of recession was low,” and the Governing Council may merely opt to buy more time as the European Union nominates former International Monetary Fund (IMF) Managing Director Christine Lagarde to replace President Mario Draghi.

With that said, more of the same from the ECB may keep EURUSD afloat over the remainder of the month especially as the Federal Reserve is widely expected to deliver at least a 25bp rate cut on July 31.

Keep in mind, the broader outlook for EURUSD is no longer tilted to the downside as both price and the Relative Strength Index (RSI) break out of the bearish formations from earlier this year.

In turn, EURUSD may stage a larger correction as it breaks out of the range-bound price action from May following the failed attempt to test the 1.1000 (78.6% expansion) handle.

Moreover, the pullback from the June-high (1.1412) has stalled around the 1.1190 (38.2% retracement) to 1.1220 (78.6% retracement) region, with the RSI highlighting a similar dynamic as the oscillator continues to track the bullish formation from earlier this year.

Need a break/close back above the 1.1270 (50% expansion) to 1.1290 (61.8% expansion) zone to bring the topside targets back on the radar, with a the next area of interest coming in around 1.1340 (38.2% expansion) followed by the Fibonacci overlap around 1.1390 (61.8% retracement) to 1.1400 (50% expansion).

Sign up and join DailyFX Currency Analyst David Song LIVE for an opportunity to discuss potential trade setups.


It was a busy week across global markets and the next two weeks look to bring more of the same. While summer months were traditionally quiet period in markets, this summer is looking to be the outlier as a number of themes remain on center-stage. Next week, the European Central Bank is expected to cut interest rates by ten basis points. The week after, the FOMC is highly-expected to cut rates by at least 25 basis points, and perhaps even more depending on how bleak their economic forecasts have become.

This theme was in the spotlight this week as FOMC members gave a number of speeches ahead of the start of the ‘blackout period.’ This is the period in which FOMC members are prohibited from talking to the press ahead of a rate decision in the effort of eliminating noise of confusion, and this is what we’ll have for the next week-and-a-half. On one hand it’s a luxury that FOMC random drivers won’t be hitting the wires as Fed member commentary is digested; but on the other, it leaves markets to their own devices as expectations around the Fed are highly volatile at the moment.

This does present an element of opportunity, however, as we’re likely going to see a continuation of volatility around the US Dollar. Below are two setups on either side of the currency.

The Euro may be looking at the peculiar scenario of a ‘rate cut rally’ around next week’s ECB rate decision. The European Central Bank is expected to cut rates deeper into negative territory with a ten basis point adjustment. And while rate cuts are rarely drivers of strength, the simple fact of the matter is that the ECB being dovish is nothing new. As a matter of fact, the bank has been dovish for pretty much the entirety of Mario Draghi’s reign atop the bank, and this is unlikely to change before he hands over control to former IMF head, Christine Lagarde.

The bigger question and perhaps driver around the single currency pertains to stimulus: Is the ECB nearing another round of QE? If the ECB touches on this at their Thursday rate decision, the Euro could certainly break-down; but is this something the bank really wants to get involved with so close to a leadership change? Not to mention the fact that a number of question marks remain around the Fed and just how dovish they might be moving forward, so this could be an opportune time to wait for the chips to fall elsewhere before pre-committing to an action that a new leader is going to have to manage and maintain.

From a price action perspective, EUR/USD continues to hold on to the higher-lows of the past month. This can keep the door open for topside until that changes; and if USD-weakness does show ahead of the FOMC rate decision, the topside of EUR/USD can remain as attractive, similar to what showed in late-Thursday price action around that quick rush of Dollar-weakness.

That quick rush of Dollar-weakness on Friday helped a beleaguered GBP/USD further recover. The early-portion of this week saw the pair spill down to fresh two-year-lows, catching support around the 1.2400 handle. Fears of a No-Deal Brexit are back in the headlines and with the seemingly inevitable move toward Boris Johnson as the country’s new Prime Minister, it looks as though this will be a negotiating chip that will not soon be removed from the table. This can keep pressure on the British Pound and if the US Dollar is heading for a scenario of strength ahead of the Fed, the short-side of GBP/USD remains as attractive.

At this point, price action in GBP/USD is testing the 1.2500-handle, and if this holds through the weekly close, a quick bounce could develop around next week’s open. But – provided that bounce remains below the Thursday swing-high of 1.2558 and perhaps more importantly the 1.2568-1.2591 resistance zone, the door for short-side swings can remain open. Target potential exists around 1.2442 followed by the two-year-low around 1.2400. If that price comes into play quickly, breakout-style logic could be adopted on the remainder of the position with trailed stops and quick scale-outs on the print of fresh lows.
I talked about this one in the Thursday webinar and after a very decisive month of prior bearish price action, USD/CAD may be ripe to rip. To be sure, this has little to do with the fundamental backdrop of either the US or Canada. As a matter of fact, that’s part of the reason I began looking at the short-side of the pair last month and that theme may even have potential for continuation. More pressing on a near-term basis, however, is the fact that this move appears oversold and thus far bears have shown no tolerance for a re-test of the 1.3000 psychological level. This has led to the build of a falling wedge formation, with the resistance side of that setup already being tested through earlier this morning. This type of formation will often be approached with the aim of bullish reversals and given the backdrop and proximity to support/resistance, that scenario could be attractive for next week. Initial target potential exists around 1.3132, which is a Fibonacci level that came into help form the July highs. That’s approximately 70 pips away from current market prices which could allow for a better than one-to-one with stops lodged below 1.3000. Beyond that, secondary target potential exists around 1.3200, followed by the prior support zone of 1.3250-1.3300.
There’s another commodity currency pair presenting flip potential but this time, it’s on the other side of the US Dollar. AUD/USD has been one of my favored venues for plays of USD-strength. The pair has been helped by a dovish RBA that’s cut rates to record lows in Australia and when coupled with USD-strength, strong trends have shown.

More recently, however, bullish price action has come back into AUD/USD and I had looked at this in the Thursday webinar. Prices have rallied up to fresh two-month highs and the door could remain open for more. A hold of support above the .7000 big figure that helped to mark this week’s swing-low can open the door for bullish continuation scenarios. Target potential exists at .7085, .7125 and then the longer-term zone of resistance that runs from .7185-.7205.
A bullish symmetrical triangle pattern appears to be developing on the USD index price chart, and after a move higher that often leads to a further advance. It can be seen on the daily chart below.
If a break higher does occur, the target would be almost two points above the price when the downward-sloping resistance line is breached. That is based on the gap between the support and resistance lines on June 25, when the recent low of 95.33 was reached. The resistance line then checked in a 97.31, a difference of 1.98.

Note, however, that a break downwards is also possible so USD bulls would be wise to place a stop just below the upward-sloping support line. In the case of a break lower, the target would be 1.98 below the price at which the breakout occurs. USD bears should therefore consider a stop just above the pattern’s resistance line.

Looking for longer-term forecasts for USD? Check out the DailyFX Trading Guides
The near-term advance in EURUSD appears to be unraveling as the European Union nominates International Monetary Fund (IMF) Managing Director Christine Lagarde to replace European Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi, but the broader outlook for the Euro Dollar exchange rate remains constructive as it breaks out of the downward trend from earlier this year.

It seems as though the upcoming transition at the ECB is spurring speculation for a more accommodative policy in Europe as Ms. Lagarde insists that “the global economy has hit a rough patch” while speaking at the Group of 20 (G20) summit.

The comments suggest the ECB will continue to support the monetary union under the new leadership, and the Governing Council may show a greater willingness to implement more non-standard measures over the coming months as the central bank struggles to achieve its mandate for price stability.

In turn, ECB officials may show a greater willingness to implement a negative interest rate policy (NIRP) for the Main Refinance Rate, its flagship benchmark for borrowing costs, with the Euro at risk of facing headwinds over the coming months as the Governing Council “stands ready to adjust all of its instruments, as appropriate, to ensure that inflation continues to move towards the Governing Council’s inflation aim in a sustained manner.”

However, the Governing Council may keep monetary policy on auto-pilot ahead of President Draghi’s departure as the central bank prepares to launch another round of Targeted Long-Term Refinance Operations (TLTRO) in September, and the Federal Reserve interest rate decision on July 31 may largely influence the near-term outlook for EURUSD as Chairman Jerome Powell and Co. are widely expected deliver a 25bp rate cut.
Keep in mind, the broader outlook for EURUSD is no longer tilted to the downside as both price and the Relative Strength Index (RSI) break out of the bearish formations from earlier this year.

As a result, EURUSD stands at risk for a larger correction as it breaks out of the range-bound price action from May following the failed attempt to test the 1.1000 (78.6% expansion) handle, with the exchange rate clearing the 200-Day SMA (1.1335) for the first time since in over a year.

The pullback from the June-high (1.1412) appears to be stalling ahead of the Fibonacci overlap around 1.1270 (50% expansion) to 1.1290 (61.8% expansion) as EURUSD struggles to extend the series of lower highs and lows from earlier this week, with a move back above 1.1340 (38.2% expansion) bringing the 1.1390 (61.8% retracement) to 1.1400 (50% expansion) region on the radar.

Next area of interest comes in around 1.1430 (23.6% expansion) to 1.1450 (50% retracement), which lines up with the March-high (1.1448), followed by the 1.1510 (38.2% expansion) to 1.1520 (23.6% expansion) zone.

Sign up and join DailyFX Currency Analyst David Song LIVE for an opportunity to discuss potential trade setups.
The EURUSD price has moved ahead strongly so far this month. It’s been a bumpy ride but, near-term, an extension to 1.14 now looks possible and if a climb above it is sustained there could be further gains. The change in mood can be seen clearly on the daily chart:
However, the 50-day moving average is close to rising above the 100-dma and, if it does so, the upward trend would be confirmed. Note too that the 14-day RSI has eased back in recent days from close to the 70 “overbought” level.

The key price levels to watch now are the 1.14 “round number” resistance level, the 1.1412 high touched on June 25 and 1.1425, where the upper boundary of the upward-sloping channel lies. Failure there could easily bring the price back down to the middle of the channel around 1.13. However, a breakthrough would bring the high just under 1.15, reached on March 20, into view as a possible upside target.
Meanwhile, IG retail trader data show 40.8% of traders are net-long, with the ratio of traders short to long at 1.45 to 1. In fact, retail traders have remained net-short since June 20, when EURUSD traded near 1.1292; the price has moved 0.7% higher since then. The number of traders net-long is 13.5% lower than last week, while the number of traders net-short is 40.4% higher.

At DailyFX, we typically take a contrarian view to crowd sentiment, and the fact traders are net-short – and more net-short than a week ago – also suggests the EURUSD price may continue to rise.

In my latest Canadian Dollar Price Outlook we highlighted near-term confluence support at 1.3175 while noting that a break, “below this threshold is needed to mark resumption targeting more significant support at the yearly low-day close / 100% extension at 1.3105/23 – look for a bigger reaction there IF reached.” Loonie is testing this key zone today in New York trade.

While the broader outlook remains weighted to downside, the immediate short-bias may be at risk heading into this region. Initial resistance now at 1.3151 backed by the weekly open at 1.3211. Bearish invalidation now lowered to 1.3258. Looking for a rebound to fade off one of these levels targeting a move towards 1.3052/67. Review my latest USD/CAD Weekly Price Outlook for a look at the longer-term Loonie technical trade levels.
In last week’s Kiwi Price Outlook we noted that NZD/USD recovery was approaching, “initial resistance targets at 6528/33 and ultimately a topside breach of this formation is needed suggest a more significant low is in place.” Price broke out just one day later with the advance now targeting the resistance at 6705/12 – a region defined by the 2019 open and the 50% retracement of the yearly range.

The focus is on a reaction off this zone on the back of a seven-day advance in Kiwi with the immediate long-bias at risk into the yearly open. From a trading standpoint, a good spot to reduce long-exposure / raise protective stops – be on the lookout for possible topside exhaustion here. Interim support 6657 backed by the June trendline (currently ~6610). Bullish invalidation now raised to the weekly open at 6589. Review my latest NZD/USD Weekly Price Outlook for a look at the longer-term Euro technical trade levels.

The March-high (1.1448) remains on the radar for EURUSD following the Federal Reserve interest rate decision as the exchange rate breaks out of the downward trend from earlier this year.

The fresh updates from the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) suggest the central bank will insulate the economy from the shift in US trade policy as the “apparent progress on trade turned to greater uncertainty.” In turn, Chairman Jerome Powell and Co. may continue to alter the forward guidance for monetary policy as the Trump administration relies on tariffs and sanctions to push its agenda.
With that said, the US dollar stands at risk of facing a more bearish fate over the coming months as eight Fed officials project a lower trajectory for the benchmark interest rate while Fed Fund futures reflect a 100% probability for at least a 25bp reduction at the next decision on July 31.

It remains to be seen if the FOMC will reverse the four rate hikes from 2018 as President Donald Trump tweets “we need rates cuts, & easing,” but current market conditions are likely to keep EURUSD afloat as the FOMC appears to be on track to shift gears over the coming months.
Keep in mind, the broader outlook for EURUSD is no longer tilted to the downside as both price and the Relative Strength Index (RSI) break out of the bearish formations from earlier this year.

In turn, EURUSD stands at risk for a larger correction as it breaks out of the range-bound price action from May following the failed attempt to test the 1.1000 (78.6% expansion) handle, with the exchange rate trading above the 200-Day SMA (1.1350) for the first time since in over a year.

A closing price above the 1.1390 (61.8% retracement) to 1.1400 (50% expansion) region brings the Fibonacci overlap around 1.1430 (23.6% expansion) to 1.1450 (50% retracement) on the radar,which lines up with the March-high (1.1448), with the next area of interest coming in around 1.1510 (38.2% expansion) to 1.1520 (23.6% expansion).
The aim of this article is to study the impact of the Brazilian central bank swap interventions on the FX market from 2006 to 2013. In this period, these nontraditional interventions were the main FX instrument of the Brazilian Government. Since the central bank operates through a sequence of daily interventions in most of the period, we employ the event study method, which is appropriate to investigate cumulative impact of intervention episodes. We analyse the effects on the risk neutral distribution of BRL-USD exchange rate, which incorporates economic valuation besides the likelihoods. We investigate both changes in level and in the dynamics of the moments. Our tests indicate that interventions have little effects on the exchange rate distribution. We only find evidences of some impact on the dynamics of the mean, volatility and skewness over long horizons when the central bank takes short positions on the exchange rate.
The effects of interventions by central banks in the FX market are an intense research topic. However, most studies focus on the spot market and use data from developed countries. Furthermore, the variable of interest of such works is usually the spot exchange rate. In this article, we depart from this framework in at least three ways: (1) we analyse an emerging country (Brazil); (2) the intervention instrument is a derivative contract, namely FX swaps1
1 The Central Bank of Brazil offers currency swaps that exchange the BRL-USD rate change plus an interest rate for the Brazilian basic interest rate. One of the counterparties of this swap is the monetary authority. For more information about this contract, see Kohlscheen and Andrade (2014 Kohlscheen, E., and S. Andrade. 2014. “Official Interventions through Derivatives: Affecting the Demand for Foreign Exchange.”  Journal of International Money and Finance 47: 202–216.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
).
View all notes
 and (3) we measure the effect of interventions by their impact on expectations about the future exchange rate, represented by the moments of the FX risk neutral distribution.

Menkhoff 2013 Menkhoff, L. 2013. “Foreign Exchange Intervention in Emerging Markets: A Survey of Empirical Studies.” The World Economy 36 (9): 1187–1208. doi:10.1111/twec.12027.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
 points out that emerging market interventions are different than those in developed economies. First, central banks of emerging countries have considerable leverage. Second, the informational advantage and the relative size of the central bank compared with the private financial sector are greater in emerging market economies (EMEs). Third, stronger regulation and capital controls are more often observed in non-mature markets. Finally, according to the IMF (IMF, 2014 IMF [International Monetary Fund]. 2014. Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions. Washington, DC.
 [Google Scholar]
, 3; Menkhoff 2013 Menkhoff, L. 2013. “Foreign Exchange Intervention in Emerging Markets: A Survey of Empirical Studies.” The World Economy 36 (9): 1187–1208. doi:10.1111/twec.12027.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
, foreign exchange interventions are nowadays a more pertinent question to EMEs. In recent years, central banks in advanced economies have not intervened regularly and in large measures. However, the academic literature on intervention focuses mainly on developed countries, giving little attention to EMEs.

Traditionally, central banks intervene in the foreign exchange market through transactions in the spot market. However, another tool consists of buying or selling foreign exchange derivatives. The no-arbitrage condition connects the price of any derivative to the spot price of the underlying asset. Thus, when the monetary authority interferes in one of these markets, it automatically affects the other. Trading in the derivatives market has the advantage of being a no-cost transaction at the opening of the position. Therefore, it does not change the amount of money supply and the stock of foreign exchange reserves in the economy. In addition, derivatives offered by the authorities can provide a hedge instrument for the private sector. In emerging countries, usually the foreign exchange exposure of the economy as a whole is significant. Often, the private market does not offer enough protection against this kind of risk. Therefore, when offering derivatives, the central bank complements the market, providing firms with a financial stabilization mechanism. However, as noted by Kohlscheen and Andrade (2014 Kohlscheen, E., and S. Andrade. 2014. “Official Interventions through Derivatives: Affecting the Demand for Foreign Exchange.”  Journal of International Money and Finance 47: 202–216.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
), the use of more complex instruments such as derivatives requires more careful risk management. Since 2002, the Central Bank of Brazil (CBB) has offered FX swaps. From 2003 to 2014, this instrument became the main foreign exchange policy tool of the Brazilian monetary authority.2
2 In October 2014, the stock of FX swaps reached US$ 100 billion. This volume represented 26.5% of Brazil’s international reserves.
View all notes
 Depending on market conditions, the CBB can take short or long positions in USDs. In the first case, this instrument is denominated traditional or long swap (LSW). In the latter, it is called reverse or short swap (SSW).

It is important to note that the goal of the monetary authority is not necessarily to influence the spot price of the foreign currency. For example, the aim of interventions can be to reduce the variability of the exchange rate. Therefore, it is necessary to investigate the effects of central bank actions not only on the exchange rate level but also on its volatility. More generally, the central bank’s exchange policy may change agents’ future expectations. In this case, we have to test the effects of interventions on the probability distribution of the future exchange rate. Nonetheless, as point out by Bali, Cakici and Chabi-Yo (2011 Bali, G., N. Cakici, and F. Chabi-Yo. 2011. “A Generalized Measure of Riskiness.” Management Science 57: 1406–1423. doi:10.1287/mnsc.1110.1373.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
), it is extremely difficult to estimate the physical probability distribution of an asset return. An alternative is to consider the risk neutral distribution, which can be directly extracted from options prices (see, e.g. Breeden and Litzenberger 1978 Breeden, D., and R. Litzenberger. 1978. “Prices of State Contingent Claims Implicit in Options Prices.” Journal of Business 51: 621–651. doi:10.1086/296025.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
). The risk neutral probabilities represent the likelihood of the states of nature adjusted by the risk aversion of agents. According to Aït-Sahalia and Lo (2000 Aït-Sahalia, Y., and A. Lo. 2000. “Nonparametric Risk Management and Implied Risk Aversion.” Journal of Econometrics 94: 9–51. doi:10.1016/S0304-4076(99)00016-0.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
), the risk neutral probabilities are more appropriate to analyse market conditions, since they consider not only the value of gains and losses but also the economic valuation of the uncertainty. In this article, we investigate the effects of interventions on the first four moments of the risk neutral probabilities of the BRL-USD exchange rate. The risk neutral probabilities are derived from currency options prices using the method proposed by Shimko (1993 Shimko, D. 1993. “Bounds of Probability.” Risk 6 (4): 33–37.
 [Google Scholar]
).

Several studies use options data to assess how interventions affect the future expectations of the foreign exchange rate. However, the results are contradictory. For example, Castrén (2004 Castrén, O. 2004. “Do Options-Implied RND Functions on G3 Currencies Move around the Times of Interventions on the JPY/USD Exchange Rate?” ECB Working Paper No. 410.
https://ssrn.com/abstract=601030
.
 [Google Scholar]
) and Galati, Melick and Micu (2005 Galati, G., W. Melick, and M. Micu. 2005. “Foreign Exchange Market Intervention and Expectations: An Empirical Study of the JPY-USD Exchange Rate.” Journal of International Money and Finance 24: 982–1011. doi:10.1016/j.jimonfin.2005.07.004.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) study the response of the moments of the JPY-USD exchange rate to episodes of Bank of Japan intervention. While the first paper finds that interventions in the yen market coincide with systematic changes in the distribution of the JPY-USD exchange rate, the second study reports the absence of significant impacts on the mean and higher moments of the exchange rate. Morel and Teïletche (2008 Morel, C., and J. Teïletche. 2008. “Do Interventions in Foreign Exchange Markets Modify Investors’ Expectations? the Experience of Japan between 1992 and 2004.” Journal of Empirical Finance 15 (2): 211–231. doi:10.1016/j.jempfin.2006.07.005.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) also analyse the Japanese market. They provide evidence that interventions affect the mean and skewness, but have mixed effects on the volatility and no influence on the kurtosis.

One possible explanation for the lack of consensus in the literature is the diversity of methods used.3
3 For example, Galati, Melick and Micu (2005 Galati, G., W. Melick, and M. Micu. 2005. “Foreign Exchange Market Intervention and Expectations: An Empirical Study of the JPY-USD Exchange Rate.” Journal of International Money and Finance 24: 982–1011. doi:10.1016/j.jimonfin.2005.07.004.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) estimate regressions between moments and interventions using instrumental variables. On the other hand, Morel and Teïletche (2008 Morel, C., and J. Teïletche. 2008. “Do Interventions in Foreign Exchange Markets Modify Investors’ Expectations? the Experience of Japan between 1992 and 2004.” Journal of Empirical Finance 15 (2): 211–231. doi:10.1016/j.jempfin.2006.07.005.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) use event study as a tool to analyse the effects of interventions.
View all notes
 This raises the question: What is the most appropriate method to study the influence of central bank interventions in the foreign exchange market? According to Neely (2005 Neely, C. 2005. “An Analysis of Recent Studies of the Effect of Foreign Exchange Intervention.” Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Review 87 (6): 685–717.
[Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
), there are two ways to tackle this problem: traditional models of time series or event study. In the former, one should run a regression of the variable of interest (spot exchange rate or moments of future distribution) against the interventions and possibly controls. This method often employs high-frequency data and aims to evaluate the immediate response of the exchange rate due to an intervention. On the other hand, an event study is a test of a specific hypothesis that does not impose a structural model on the exchange rate. According to Fatum and Hutchison (2003 Fatum, R., and M. Hutchison. 2003. “Is Sterilised Foreign Exchange Intervention Effective after All? an Event Study Approach.” The Economic Journal 113 (487): 390–411. doi:10.1111/ecoj.2003.113.issue-487.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
), an event study is best suited for analysis of sporadic and intense periods of intervention. This method is useful for assessing situations where isolated interventions correspond in fact to the same decision about exchange rate policy. For example, the central bank may act in the market for several days until the exchange rate converges to a specific level. Therefore, the choice of the method is closely connected to what one intends to test.

In this article, we use the event study method to analyse the effects of the intervention via FX swap issued by the CBB on the distribution of the exchange rate 1 month ahead. There are two reasons for this choice. First, the unavailability of high-frequency data for the USD options market prevents us from analysing exchange rate behaviour immediately surrounding the interventions. Second, it is well known that in recent years, the CBB managed its actions in a systematic way, in a movement known by the market as ‘daily rations’. Our sample period begins in January 2006 and ends in December 2013.4
4 The choice of this period is due to the fact that before 2006, the USD options had low liquidity, which may cause problems in the computation of the risk neutral distribution.
View all notes
 Although this programme covers a short period in our sample (the daily rations started in August 2013), we can assume that in past periods sequences of daily interventions were also part of the same exchange rate policy. In this case, the event study technique is the most suitable to tackle the issue.

One of the main criticisms of the use of event study for the analysis of this type of problem is the difficulty to control the results for other variables that may affect the distribution of the exchange rate. To circumvent this issue, we propose a variation of the standard event study in which we run regressions of changes in the moments around the episodes of interventions against economic variables that can also affect the exchange rate’s distribution. This approach allows us to include controls in the analysis of the effects of interventions on risk neutral moments of the exchange rate.

Closely related with our work are the studies of Kohlscheen and Andrade (2014 Kohlscheen, E., and S. Andrade. 2014. “Official Interventions through Derivatives: Affecting the Demand for Foreign Exchange.”  Journal of International Money and Finance 47: 202–216.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
), García-Verdú and Ramos-Francia (2014 García-Verdú, S., and M. Ramos-Francia. 2014. “Interventions and Expected Exchange Rates in Emerging Market Economies.” BIS Papers 73: 223–242.
 [Google Scholar]
) and Chamon, Garcia and Souza (2015 Chamon, M., M. Garcia, and L. Souza. 2015. “FX Interventions in Brazil: A Synthetic Control Approach.” Discussion Paper, 630. Economic Department, PUC-Rio.
 [Google Scholar]
). The first article analyses the impact of FX swap transactions on the exchange rate using high-frequency data from the Brazilian market between July 2011 and December 2012. The authors show that the swaps affect the level of the exchange rate, with maximum impact taking place between 60 and 70 min after the announcement of the auction. We differ from them at least in two aspects. First, we investigate the impact of FX swap transactions not on the spot rate, but on the moments of the future distribution of BRL-USD exchange rate. Second, we consider a longer period. Our database contains data ranging from January 2006 to December 2013. García-Verdú and Ramos-Francia (2014 García-Verdú, S., and M. Ramos-Francia. 2014. “Interventions and Expected Exchange Rates in Emerging Market Economies.” BIS Papers 73: 223–242.
 [Google Scholar]
) evaluate the effects of intervention on the risk neutral distribution of the exchange rates of five Latin American countries including Brazil. The authors find little evidence of impact on the mean, volatility, skewness and kurtosis. For Brazil, only the skewness responds significantly to the CBB’s interventions. The main difference between the work of García-Verdú and Ramos-Francia (2014 García-Verdú, S., and M. Ramos-Francia. 2014. “Interventions and Expected Exchange Rates in Emerging Market Economies.” BIS Papers 73: 223–242.
 [Google Scholar]
) and our analysis is the intervention mechanism of foreign exchange policy. While they study interventions in the spot market, we investigate the effects of FX swaps. Additionally, both Kohlscheen and Andrade (2014 Kohlscheen, E., and S. Andrade. 2014. “Official Interventions through Derivatives: Affecting the Demand for Foreign Exchange.”  Journal of International Money and Finance 47: 202–216.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) and García-Verdú and Ramos-Francia (2014 García-Verdú, S., and M. Ramos-Francia. 2014. “Interventions and Expected Exchange Rates in Emerging Market Economies.” BIS Papers 73: 223–242.
 [Google Scholar]
) use linear regression and thus evaluate immediate effects of a particular intervention. On the other hand, we use the event study technique, which implies that we focus on episodes of intervention and analyse the impacts over a longer horizon.5
5 Studying the effects over longer horizons is recommended for at least two reasons. First, central banks may have a monetary policy strategy with a forward-looking perspective. Second, as noted in Castrén (2004 Castrén, O. 2004. “Do Options-Implied RND Functions on G3 Currencies Move around the Times of Interventions on the JPY/USD Exchange Rate?” ECB Working Paper No. 410.
https://ssrn.com/abstract=601030
.
 [Google Scholar]
), changes in high-order moments are more persistent than changes in the exchange rate level.
View all notes
 Chamon, Garcia and Souza (2015 Chamon, M., M. Garcia, and L. Souza. 2015. “FX Interventions in Brazil: A Synthetic Control Approach.” Discussion Paper, 630. Economic Department, PUC-Rio.
 [Google Scholar]
) investigate the effectiveness of two major intervention programmes of the CBB (in August 2013 and December 2013) to curb excess volatility and overshooting of the exchange rate, affected by the Fed’s tapering announcement. They find that only the first intervention programme could mitigate the BRL depreciation significantly, but both had no impact on the volatility of the exchange rate. Although they also study swap interventions and use the event study method, unlike our article, they focus on the effects of interventions only on the spot exchange rate and its volatility. Therefore, it is not easy to compare their results directly with ours, since we aim to analyse the future distribution of exchange rate. Furthermore, they study just two large intervention events, which correspond to small fraction of our sample.

Our tests fail to confirm the hypothesis that foreign exchange interventions produce cumulative impacts on the moments of the BRL-USD risk neutral distribution. Only in three cases we can infer that the CBB’s interventions affect the future expectations of the exchange rate: for interventions via LSWs the results indicate changes in the dynamic of mean, volatility and skewness over long horizons. The lack of evidence of effect on kurtosis and the scant evidence of substantive impacts on the other moments are in line with other works, such as Galati, Melick and Micu (2005 Galati, G., W. Melick, and M. Micu. 2005. “Foreign Exchange Market Intervention and Expectations: An Empirical Study of the JPY-USD Exchange Rate.” Journal of International Money and Finance 24: 982–1011. doi:10.1016/j.jimonfin.2005.07.004.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) and García-Verdú and Ramos-Francia (2014 García-Verdú, S., and M. Ramos-Francia. 2014. “Interventions and Expected Exchange Rates in Emerging Market Economies.” BIS Papers 73: 223–242.
 [Google Scholar]
), but opposite to Fatum and Hutchison (2003 Fatum, R., and M. Hutchison. 2003. “Is Sterilised Foreign Exchange Intervention Effective after All? an Event Study Approach.” The Economic Journal 113 (487): 390–411. doi:10.1111/ecoj.2003.113.issue-487.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) and Morel and Teïletche (2008 Morel, C., and J. Teïletche. 2008. “Do Interventions in Foreign Exchange Markets Modify Investors’ Expectations? the Experience of Japan between 1992 and 2004.” Journal of Empirical Finance 15 (2): 211–231. doi:10.1016/j.jempfin.2006.07.005.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
). Compared with the findings of Kohlscheen and Andrade (2014 Kohlscheen, E., and S. Andrade. 2014. “Official Interventions through Derivatives: Affecting the Demand for Foreign Exchange.”  Journal of International Money and Finance 47: 202–216.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
), our study suggests that any effects of interventions should be immediate. However, testing this conjecture within our framework is not possible, since high-frequency data on the foreign exchange options market are not available.

II. CBB FX interventions through swap contracts
Since March 2002, CBB was authorized by the Brazilian Government to carry out FX swap transactions. FX swap contract trades the exchange rate variation plus a local onshore USD interest rate for the cumulative domestic interest rate. If the CBB buys this derivative contract, the financial institution receives the equivalent of the exchange rate variation over the time of the contract plus an USD interest rate. At the same time, the CBB receives the cumulative interbank interest rate (traditional swap). If the CBB sells the FX swap, the flows are reverted (reverse swap).6
6 See the FX swap cash flows diagram in the Appendix 1.
View all notes
 It should be pointed out that all cash flows are paid in Brazilian Reais and there is no exchange of foreign currency involved in a FX swap transaction. Therefore, the central bank does not alter the supply of foreign exchange reserves.

Such transactions, conducted through a public offer auction, represent an alternative instrument of the exchange rate policy executed by the CBB, since the Brazilian Fiscal Responsibility Law of May 2000 prevented the institution from issuing its own bonds. At first, BM&FBovespa, the Brazilian futures and stock exchange, registered these swap transactions in the form of FX swap with daily settlements, using the Interbank Deposit (ID) rate as the contract interest rate. From May 2013, BM&FBovespa recorded these contracts using the benchmark Selic rate instead.7
7 The ID rate is the average of 1-day loan rates for transactions between banks or financial institutions. It is calculated by Cetip, a company that offers services related to registration, central securities depository, trading and settlement of assets and securities. The Selic rate is calculated by the Special Settlement and Custody System of CBB. It is the average rate weighted by the volume of 1-day transactions guaranteed by federal government securities, carried out at Selic through committed operations. It is the Brazilian base rate used as reference by the monetary policy.
View all notes

Figure 1 shows the CBB’s interventions in the BRL-USD market through FX swap transactions from 2006 to 2013, the sample period of our study. Positive values represent the financial outcomes of the traditional swap auctions, where the CBB assumes a long position. On the other hand, the negative values of the chart show the financial outcomes of the reverse swap auctions, where the CBB assumes the opposite position.

Figure 1. CBB FX swap interventions.

This figure shows the CBB swap interventions in the FX market between 2006 and 2013. Positive values represent the financial outcomes of the traditional swap auctions. Negative values show the financial outcomes of the reverse swap auctions.
From 2006 to 2013, the CBB conducted 842 swap auctions. Of this total, the bank assumed long positions 399 times (the average financial outcome is US$ 572 million per transaction). In the case of reverse swap auctions, the average value of the financial outcome of the 443 offers was US$ 216 million per transaction. In Figure 1, we observe that the traditional swap transactions were especially intense in the second halves of 2008 and of 2013. Between July and December 2008, there were 107 traditional swap auctions, with average value of US$ 437 million. In the second half of 2013, the CBB intervened 191 times in the FX swap market, averaging US$ 520 million per intervention. In those periods, there were capital outflows and consequent FX depreciation, as a result, respectively, of the sub-prime crisis and the announcement of the quantitative easing tapering policy in the U.S. The reverse swap auctions, in turn, were more sporadically used in periods of normality, but with an FX appreciation trend.

III. Methodology
In this section, we present the methods employed in this article to study the impact of FX swap interventions on the risk neutral density (RND) of the BRL-USD exchange rate. First, we discuss the model for the RND’s extraction from the price of currency options. Then, we detail the statistical technique used to test the effects of the exchange rate interventions conducted by the CBB.

Risk neutral density
Prices of options have been used to extract the RND of its underlying assets. According to Ross (1976 Ross, S. 1976. “The Arbitrage Theory of Capital Asset Pricing.” Journal of Economic Theory 13: 341–360. doi:10.1016/0022-0531(76)90046-6.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
), one can create options portfolios to synthesize the prices of Arrow and Debreu’ assets (1954 Arrow, K. J., and G. Debreu. 1954. “Existence of an Equilibrium for a Competitive Economy.” Econometrica 22 (3): 265–290. textbf22. doi:10.2307/1907353
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
). Based on this, Banz and Miller (1978 Banz, R., and M. Miller. 1978. “Prices for State-Contingent Claims: Some Estimates and Applications.” Journal of Business 51: 653–672. doi:10.1086/296026.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) and Breeden and Litzenberger (1978 Breeden, D., and R. Litzenberger. 1978. “Prices of State Contingent Claims Implicit in Options Prices.” Journal of Business 51: 621–651. doi:10.1086/296025.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) show that RND is the second derivative of the price of a call option with respect to its exercise price. In other words,
The price of any asset is the expected risk neutral payoff discounted at the risk-free rate. Therefore, the RND embeds valuable information. It represents the chances of occurrence of the states of nature adjusted by the preferences of agents. There are several reasons for analysing the impacts of interventions through options market conditions instead of through spot market. For example, since the goal of interventions can be to reduce the variability of the exchange rate, it is necessary to investigate the effects of the central bank’s intervention on the volatility. On the other hand, options are forward-looking instruments. So using options, data enables us to evaluate how interventions affect the future expectations of economic agents and not only the spot rate. The risk neutral probabilities extracted from foreign exchange options prices are perfectly suited for this purpose. They are easy to obtain and constitute a fertile ground to assess how monetary authority interventions influence expectations and risk aversion in the financial market.

Figure 2 shows the evolution of the first four risk neutral moments of the BRL-USD exchange rate between January 2006 and December 2013. For a better view, we present the 10-day moving average moments. Most of the sample’s kurtosis is above three, indicating a thicker tail distribution than the normal one. We also have positive skewness most of the time, that is, the RND of the BRL-USD exchange rate is longer on the right side of the distribution. All risk neutral moments rose sharply during the 2008 sub-prime crisis. We also observe a volatility rise during 2013, the year of the quantitative easing tapering policy announced by the US Government.

Figure 2. Moments of the BRL-USD exchange rate.

This figure shows the evolution of the first four moments of the 1-month horizon BRL-USD rate risk neutral distribution between January 2006 and December 2013. For a better view, we present 10-day moving average moments. We extract the exchange rate risk neutral distribution from USD options traded in the Brazilian market using the method proposed by Shimko (1993 Shimko, D. 1993. “Bounds of Probability.” Risk 6 (4): 33–37.

). Mean, skewness and kurtosis scales are on the left side, while the volatility scale is on the right.
We employ an event study approach to analyse the effect of interventions in the moments of the risk neutral distribution. Fatum and Hutchison (2003 Fatum, R., and M. Hutchison. 2003. “Is Sterilised Foreign Exchange Intervention Effective after All? an Event Study Approach.” The Economic Journal 113 (487): 390–411. doi:10.1111/ecoj.2003.113.issue-487.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) argue that event studies are more appropriate than the traditional time-series modelling to study phenomena with sporadic and intense natures. FX interventions fit these characteristics, since they have the peculiarity of being performed during short-time intervals, generally lasting several days. Repeated interventions over several consecutive days can be seen as a single event corresponding to the same political decision.

We follow the event study method employed by Morel and Teïletche (2008 Morel, C., and J. Teïletche. 2008. “Do Interventions in Foreign Exchange Markets Modify Investors’ Expectations? the Experience of Japan between 1992 and 2004.” Journal of Empirical Finance 15 (2): 211–231. doi:10.1016/j.jempfin.2006.07.005.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
). The starting point is to define what the FX intervention event is and identify its observation period, called the event window. This way, we can compare the behaviour of the exchange rate risk neutral moments in two distinct periods: pre-event and post-event. To differentiate one intervention event from another, we have to arbitrarily choose what we call a ‘tranquility’ period, which is the minimum number of days with no intervention between the events. Furthermore, we must set the size of the pre- and post-event windows. Following Morel and Teïletche (2008 Morel, C., and J. Teïletche. 2008. “Do Interventions in Foreign Exchange Markets Modify Investors’ Expectations? the Experience of Japan between 1992 and 2004.” Journal of Empirical Finance 15 (2): 211–231. doi:10.1016/j.jempfin.2006.07.005.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
), we chose five consecutive working days as the tranquility period and also set 2, 5 and 10 working days as events windows.8
8 We also tested the 2-business day tranquility period and the results were similar in terms of significance.
View all notes

Simultaneity is an important question that arises when inferring the effects of intervention on exchange rates. Indeed, it is possible that moments depend not only on intervention but also on interventions respond to movements in moments. The literature on exchange interventions is not unanimous with respect to the treatment of simultaneity. However, it is known that this problem is alleviated when interventions take place before the time the expectations are formed. Bonser-Neal and Tanner (1996 Bonser-Neal, C., and G. Tanner. 1996. “Central Bank Intervention and the Volatility of Foreign Exchange Rates: Evidence from the Options Market.” Journal of International Money and Finance 15 (6): 853–878. doi:10.1016/S0261-5606(96)00033-2.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
), Castrén (2004 Castrén, O. 2004. “Do Options-Implied RND Functions on G3 Currencies Move around the Times of Interventions on the JPY/USD Exchange Rate?” ECB Working Paper No. 410.
https://ssrn.com/abstract=601030
.
 [Google Scholar]
) and Galati, Melick and Micu (2005 Galati, G., W. Melick, and M. Micu. 2005. “Foreign Exchange Market Intervention and Expectations: An Empirical Study of the JPY-USD Exchange Rate.” Journal of International Money and Finance 24: 982–1011. doi:10.1016/j.jimonfin.2005.07.004.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) consider coordinated action among central banks of different countries in their models and, although they address differently the issue of simultaneity, they recognize that its effects are weaker the longer the time is between the intervention and the formation of expectations in the FX market. In the event study method, this means that the more advanced in time the post-event window starting date is, the less the simultaneity will be. However, in this case, the impact of central bank activity tends to be underestimated, especially if the events do not last long.

Aware of the existing trade-off between simultaneity and interventions’ impact, we choose to follow Morel and Teïletche’s proposal of matching the post-event window starting date with the last day of intervention, as our events are mostly of short duration. On the other hand, we note that even with this intersection, the impact of simultaneity tends to be mitigated, since central bank announcements of actions occur in the morning on the vast majority of occasions. Therefore, these actions already belong to the market information set when options prices are formed.
We focus the event study on the FX swap interventions that occurred between January 2006 and December 2013. Note that since we are interested in the effect on expectations, we look to the day of the announcement of the swap auction and not to the day of the auction. Kohlscheen and Andrade (2014 Kohlscheen, E., and S. Andrade. 2014. “Official Interventions through Derivatives: Affecting the Demand for Foreign Exchange.”  Journal of International Money and Finance 47: 202–216.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) also adopt this hypothesis. In total, we identified 18 events of traditional swaps and 30 of reverse swaps. Tables A1 and A2 of the Appendix 2 summarize their characteristics, respectively.

Most events are 1-day interventions. The last event of Table A1 is noteworthy: it is the longest traditional swap (over 130 days) and therefore the largest offered volume (around 4 million contracts). This event was due to the central bank’s policy adopted in response to the volatility of the foreign exchange market at the end of May 2013. At that time, the Fed’s chairman, Ben Bernanke, announced that the institution could start reducing the monetary stimulus of monthly bond purchases, which became known as tapering of the quantitative easing policy. In Brazil, the central bank, which had already initiated a monetary tightening process in April, reacted by starting to offer traditional FX swaps on 31 May 2013. The goal was to provide hedging for economic agents in a global environment of increased uncertainty, which inhibited the action of traditional sellers of foreign exchange hedging. Initially, interventions were discretionary. In August, they began to be systematically administered, in what was known as the ‘daily rations’ strategy.9
9 Comunicate CBB n° 24.370, 22 August 2013.
View all notes
 ,10
10 We split this mega traditional swap in two sub-events: from May to July 2013 and from August to December 2013. In both cases, the results are similar to the original one.
View all notes

Regarding reverse swap interventions in Table A2, it is worth noting the first event (first quarter of 2006) for being the longest of the series, lasting 46 days. It was a response to the government’s decision to waive income withholding tax on foreign investments in Treasury bonds and the effects of this policy on capital flows to Brazil.11
11 We rebuilt the event study removing from the sample both the longest traditional and the reverse swap events, for sensitivity analysis. The results were similar in terms of significance.
View all notes

We use a mean difference test to evaluate the significance of changes in risk neutral moments between the pre- and post-event periods. To specify the null hypothesis of this test, it is necessary to define what a successful intervention episode is. We examine two criteria. In the direction criterion, we check if changes occur in the moment level after the intervention. In smoothing criteria, we evaluate the occurrence of changes in the dynamics of the moments, comparing their variation between the pre- and the post-event periods. In the latter criterion, the goal is to verify if intervention is against the trend. 
Morel and Teïletche (2008 Morel, C., and J. Teïletche. 2008. “Do Interventions in Foreign Exchange Markets Modify Investors’ Expectations? the Experience of Japan between 1992 and 2004.” Journal of Empirical Finance 15 (2): 211–231. doi:10.1016/j.jempfin.2006.07.005.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) note that the null hypotheses thus defined exclude the event window from the analysis and so the tests become more conservative. The idea is that if the moments immediately respond to interventions and this response is brief, the above hypotheses will not be able to identify the full effect of interventions on moments. The first type of hypothesis (about the level of change) is the strongest form of the test and investigates whether the intervention leads to a significant moment change in the next period. The second type does not necessarily require the moment to vary afterwards.

The alternative hypothesis of each test represents the expected effects of interventions over the moments if the central bank’s policy is believed by the market. For the direction criterion test, the expected effect on the mean and skewness of the foreign exchange intervention carried out by the bank is a positive change in the case of reverse swaps and a negative change in the case of traditional swaps. Regarding the standard deviation and kurtosis, we expect that any intervention whatsoever leads to a negative change. Regarding the smoothing criterion test, we expect the effects on the moments to be the same and, in this case, we compare the moments’ changes before and after intervention. To assess the significance of the results, we use the one-tailed t test and the non-parametric Wilcoxon test.

One limitation of the event study method is that it does not include controls for effects of other variables that can influence the exchange rate distribution. Fatum and Hutchison (2003 Fatum, R., and M. Hutchison. 2003. “Is Sterilised Foreign Exchange Intervention Effective after All? an Event Study Approach.” The Economic Journal 113 (487): 390–411. doi:10.1111/ecoj.2003.113.issue-487.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) address this issue by performing a robustness test in subsamples, where interventions do not coincide with changes in the interest rate. This procedure allows distinction between the effects of monetary and exchange rate policies, but it is incomplete since there are other factors that can affect the exchange rate distribution. In this article, we propose a different solution. The parametric test of the event study method is equivalent to a regression of the moment change on a constant. Therefore, we include the controls considering the following regression:
Therefore, we use a traditional model of time-series regression, in which the impact of intervention is evaluated through a single equation controlled by macroeconomic and financial variables. Given the sporadic nature of intervention series, the regression analysis developed here considers grouped series per intervention event (cluster regressions). Then, each observation of a particular series is a clustering of the values in the period defined by each intervention event. The significance of the constant term provides information about the effectiveness of the central bank’s actions on the exchange rate RND.

We base the macroeconomic and financial control variables on Kohlscheen (2012 Kohlscheen, E. 2012. “Order Flow and the Real: Indirect Evidence of the Effectiveness of Sterilized Interventions.” Working Paper Series, Central Bank of Brazil 273.
 [Google Scholar]
). These are financial and non-financial exchange flows, the CRB index representing commodity price movements, the implied volatility of the VIX index measuring the degree of global risk aversion, the EMBI index acting as a proxy for the country risk premium and Selic-Fed Funds interest rate differential reflecting changes in local and global monetary conditions. We aggregate the exchange flow variables per event by summing each day’s flow within the event period. We cluster the other control variables according to the changes between the starting and the ending date of each event.
In this section, we analyse the changes in the moments of the exchange rate risk neutral distribution 1 month ahead when the CBB interventions through FX swaps occur. We estimate these changes through an event study and through regressions that include the clusters of the swaps. We described these methods in section Event study. For the two methods, we analyse the changes both in the levels and in the dynamics of the moments.

Tables 2, 3, 4 and 5 show the event study and the regression results. As described in section Event study, we use windows of 2, 5 and 10 working days. For the event study, we employ two tests about the difference of means (matched samples), a parametric test (t-test) and a non-parametric test (Wilcoxon signed-ranks test). We estimate the regressions by the ordinary least squares method, using the heteroscedasticity and autocorrelation consistent (HAC) Newey–West estimator. Regarding the regressions, the constant term should be statistically different from zero in order to consider that the moments have changed.
When considering the traditional FX swaps, most of the results are not statistically significant. The only exception is the decrease in the dynamics of the long-term mean. Most of the results are negative, which is consistent with the direction of intervention. However, there are contradictory results. For example, we can see the sign is positive for the 2-day window, negative for 5 days and again positive for 10 days for the changes in level regressions.

For reverse FX swaps, the signs are contradictory and not significant. For the 2-day window, the signs are always negative (both in the event test and the regressions), showing that in the swap interventions in favour of the dollar, the short-term trend is devaluation of the exchange rate, which is inconsistent with the direction of interventions. However, the signs are positive for the longer window (10-day window), showing that if there is some effect in the short term, it is quickly dissipated.

We conclude that the swaps do not have significant impact on the mean of the RND, which is in line with Galati and Melick (1999 Galati, G., and W. Melick. 1999. “Perceived Central Bank Intervention And Market Expectations: An Empirical Study Of The Yen/dollar Exchange Rate, 1993-96.” BIS Working paper, no. 77. doi:10.2139/ssrn.856286.
[Crossref], , [Google Scholar]
) and Galati, Melick and Micu (2005 Galati, G., W. Melick, and M. Micu. 2005. “Foreign Exchange Market Intervention and Expectations: An Empirical Study of the JPY-USD Exchange Rate.” Journal of International Money and Finance 24: 982–1011. doi:10.1016/j.jimonfin.2005.07.004.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
), but contradicts Fatum and Hutchison (2003 Fatum, R., and M. Hutchison. 2003. “Is Sterilised Foreign Exchange Intervention Effective after All? an Event Study Approach.” The Economic Journal 113 (487): 390–411. doi:10.1111/ecoj.2003.113.issue-487.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) and Morel and Teïletche (2008 Morel, C., and J. Teïletche. 2008. “Do Interventions in Foreign Exchange Markets Modify Investors’ Expectations? the Experience of Japan between 1992 and 2004.” Journal of Empirical Finance 15 (2): 211–231. doi:10.1016/j.jempfin.2006.07.005.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
).
In the case of the second moment of the RND, the results are also ambiguous and not significant. The only exception is the decrease in the dynamics of the long-term standard deviation. The constants of the regressions are almost always positive, in line with the literature, which indicates that foreign exchange interventions lead to higher volatility (see, for instance, Bonser-Neal and Tanner (1996 Bonser-Neal, C., and G. Tanner. 1996. “Central Bank Intervention and the Volatility of Foreign Exchange Rates: Evidence from the Options Market.” Journal of International Money and Finance 15 (6): 853–878. doi:10.1016/S0261-5606(96)00033-2.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
); Baillie and Osterberg (1997 Baillie, R., and W. Osterberg. 1997. “Why Do Central Banks Intervene?” Journal of International Money and Finance 16: 909–919. doi:10.1016/S0261-5606(97)00012-0.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
); Dominguez (1998 Dominguez, K. 1998. “Central Bank Intervention and Exchange Rate Volatility.” Journal of International Money and Finance 17: 161–190. doi:10.1016/S0261-5606(97)98055-4.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
); Beine, Laurent, and Lecourt (2003 Beine, M., S. Laurent, and C. Lecourt. 2003. “Official Central Bank Intervention and Exchange Rate Volatility: Evidence from a Switching Regime Analysis.” European Economic Review 47: 891–911. doi:10.1016/S0014-2921(02)00306-9.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
; Frenkel, Pierdzioch, and Stadtmann (2005); Hillebrand and Schnabl (2003 Hillebrand, E., and G. Schnabl. 2003. The Effects of Japanese Foreign Exchange Intervention: GARCH Estimation and Change Point Detection. Baton Rouge: Mimeo, Louisiana State University.
 [Google Scholar]
)). However, the results for the event study are negative most of the time.

For reverse FX swaps, the results are also not significant. The signs of the results for the 2-day window are most often negative. However, the results are always positive for the 10-day window, in line with the literature, indicating that the decrease in volatility is not sustained over time.
For the third moment of the RND (skewness), there are no significant results for interventions via traditional swaps. The only exception is an increase in the dynamics of the longest-term skewness. For the 2-day window, the signs of the results are negative. However, for the longer window, both the event test (t-test) and the regressions indicate an increase in skewness (i.e. the distribution becomes more skewed to the right), which is inconsistent with the direction of interventions.

When considering reverse FX swaps, the results are also not significant. The signs of the results for the 2-day window are always positive, indicating that the skewness increases with these interventions. This result contradicts Morel and Teïletche (2008 Morel, C., and J. Teïletche. 2008. “Do Interventions in Foreign Exchange Markets Modify Investors’ Expectations? the Experience of Japan between 1992 and 2004.” Journal of Empirical Finance 15 (2): 211–231. doi:10.1016/j.jempfin.2006.07.005.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
), but is consistent with the direction of interventions. However, for longer windows, the results are ambiguous.
The objective of this article is to analyse the impact of interventions by the CBB through FX swaps on the BRL-USD exchange rate RND 1 month ahead. Results indicate few effects of swap interventions on BRL-USD risk neutral moments. Lack of evidence of effect on kurtosis and scant evidence of substantive impacts on mean, volatility and skewness are in line with Galati, Melick and Micu (2005 Galati, G., W. Melick, and M. Micu. 2005. “Foreign Exchange Market Intervention and Expectations: An Empirical Study of the JPY-USD Exchange Rate.” Journal of International Money and Finance 24: 982–1011. doi:10.1016/j.jimonfin.2005.07.004.
[Crossref], [Web of Science ®], , [Google Scholar]
) and García-Verdú and Ramos-Francia (2014 García-Verdú, S., and M. Ramos-Francia. 2014. “Interventions and Expected Exchange Rates in Emerging Market Economies.” BIS Papers 73: 223–242.
 [Google Scholar]
) findings.

The results of this study should be viewed with caution. First, they may be related to the method employed, which relies on closing options prices to estimate the moments of the exchange rate distribution. The responses to the interventions may be more immediate and both the event study and the cluster regressions might not be capturing them, since these methods use closing data. Second, since we analyse the risk-neutral distribution, it is not possible to identify whether the CBB intervention affect the risk premium or the physical distribution. Third, changes in moments may depend on their initial levels, that is, on the intervention period conditions. However, the number of interventions in our sample is not large enough to contemplate these situations. It is noteworthy that this article is limited to analysing the effects of interventions through FX swaps in general, not differentiating interventions in any way, such as scrolling and non-scrolling interventions or surprising and non-surprising interventions. Finally, we consider the event the auction’s announcement and not the intervention itself. However, the actual interventions may have some effect on the distribution.
 According to latest trading Mon, 29 Jul 2019 12:00:02 GMT there was little change in the price of EUR with regards to the Australian Dollar. At the conclusion of trading on Mon, 5 Aug 2019 12:00:01 GMT there was little change in the price of GBP with regards to the Australian Dollar. After a strong showing on Tue, 6 Aug 2019 12:00:01 GMT USD made major gains on the NOK. At the end of trading on Wed, 7 Aug 2019 12:00:02 GMT the USD made minor gains on the CAD. At the conclusion of trading on Wed, 7 Aug 2019 12:00:02 GMT USD made major gains on the NOK. After a strong showing on Wed, 7 Aug 2019 12:00:02 GMT the USD has had major loses against the JPY. More bad news today for Japanese Yen traders Thu, 8 Aug 2019 00:00:01 GMT the USD has had major loses against the JPY. At the conclusion of trading on Thu, 8 Aug 2019 00:00:01 GMT the USD made minor gains on the CAD. After a strong showing on Thu, 8 Aug 2019 00:00:01 GMT the USD made major gains on the NOK. At the end of trading on Wed, 14 Aug 2019 12:00:02 GMT the EUR made major gains on the RUB. Concluding a weak day of trading on Wed, 14 Aug 2019 12:00:02 GMT the Swedish Krona has increased in value an exponensial amount from 9.318006 to 9.556426 the 030719USD.json traders are increasingly tentative.